sizescale – Just another WordPress site
Skip to content
sizescale
Just another WordPress site
book 22 8 2016
Sizescale Book 22 8 2016
Introduction
The first two papers (or sub-books) in this book are my latest writings, whilst the last paper (sub-book) is an edited version of five years’ worth of writing. In the latest papers (which come first in this book) the ideas I’ve come up with are summarized and the rigorous reasoning is swiftly gone through, so for a thorough understanding of the ideas and the origins of the ideas it is worthwhile reading the last and longest sub-book in this book.
Table of Contents
Introduction. 1
Sub-book August 2016. 4
Sub-book September 2016. 7
Foreword. 7
Chapter 1. 10
The Sour Fruits. 16
God. 21
The extraterrestiral diagrams. 24
Morality. 25
Sub-book November 2016. 26
Sub-book years 2011-2016. 44
The brain: how does the human brain work, think and anticipate. 44
Preface. 44
Introduction: 44
The Anatomy of History. 44
Anatomy of history. 47
The sizescale. 58
The difference between the sizescale and the sizescale-concept 59
The definition of a layer 60
The relationship between the layers. 60
Time in the sizescale. 60
The observer of the sizescale. 61
The standards. 62
Things to do with the sizescale. 63
Movement shows different spaces. 63
Rotating the sizescale applies the same rotation to every layer 64
“Flow” in the sizescale. 64
Give the layers names. 64
Summary. 65
An infinite sizescale. 66
The existential theory based on an infinite sizescale. 68
Philosophical reasons for the sizescale. 69
I think and I exist 69
The ability to draw graphs. 70
Conclusion. 71
Limits of knowledge break a trend. 71
A center of the sizescale. 72
Calculus. 73
Summary. 73
Proof that there is more to the sizescale than the knowable sizescale. 74
Reality is one. 74
That of which all is part cannot be observed. 74
Summary. 76
The existential theory continues. 78
A finite knowable sizescale. 78
Proving that space is infinitely large. 80
Theory one: there is a middle of existence. 81
Theory two: the back of your head is far in front of you. 82
Theory three: space is infinite. 83
Summary. 84
E=mc2. 84
Energymass and spacetime descriptions: one for each sizescale. 87
The existential theory continues. 88
Dark matter and Dark energy. 91
The sizescale movie. 94
The Existential theory continues. 98
Questions and answers. 100
Life beyond the limits of knowledge. 100
The forces of the sizescale. 100
The big bang’s end and beginning. 101
History of Idea: The unthinkable thought 168
Spacetime. 171
Summary. 173
E=mc2. 173
Energymasspacetime. 175
Summary. 176
The sizescale. 185
The difference between the sizescale and the sizescale-concept 186
The definition of a layer 187
The relationship between the layers. 187
Time in the sizescale. 188
The observer separate from every observers’ vision simultaneously. 189
The standards. 190
Things to do with the sizescale. 191
Summary. 192
How religion arose. 202
Future Prediction. 204
Sub-book August 2016
The late Christopher Hitchens, but now Lawrence Krauss, Sam Harris and Richard Dawkins travel the globe debating atheism and religion. The religious people tend to respond by, to what me seems to be, “the God of the gaps” meaning whatever science can’t yet answer is the reason to believe God. The origins of the universe (the existential theory) and what the universe’s morality is (universal morality) are points where the atheist debaters get stuck. They argue that just because science doesn’t know the answer doesn’t mean some medieval revealed “holy book” does. But that doesn’t convince the religious: they’d rather have the answer from their prophet than the scientific “we don’t know”-answer.
The existential theory proposed in this book has several pillars or points that can be addressed: the separation-intertwinedness-opposition, the energymass-spacetime-opposition, and the infinity of the sizescale. It is obvious that this is a “map” (in the map-territory distinction; the menu is not the meal), but it is as close as we’ve gotten to a full-fledged existential theory and I bet it is as far as alien millions-of-years-more-advanced civilizations have gotten too. They recognize the map-territory-distinction (subjective humans trying to map an objective reality and the discrepancy between the subjective and the objective) and do the best they can whilst forced into that situation. The existential theory I propose is the best we can do being (as we will always be) subjective observers.
When it comes to morality I find the most difficult question that of either having a large investment-class or having welfare for many. There are important future projects that require massive investments and a community where no-one has spare money to invest is not good for the future; neither is the pain and stress that comes from having a small amount of money for the substance of a large number of people. Right now the world is in some kind of balance between having many billionaires and having some welfare for the poor. Which way the election goes changes this balance, and its a too difficult question for me to answer: do we need to meet the investment-class’ needs or the welfare class’ needs? Either way the election is not, whatever way it goes after the vote, not drastically changing the fact that the world is diverse in the sense that there are both investors and stress-free welfare states. This topic I consider to be part of “morality” and it is too hard of a question – the left-right-wing debate is – to answer scientifically.
But science, as an ideology, has its own morality which is much more certain. It is a self-perpetuating morality meaning science helps science; other planets in the universe millions of years ahead of us would want us to invest in and promote science (because that helps both the investor-class and is of benefit for the poor). The most obvious example is the end of war and rise of sanity that comes from everyone adopting identical world-views (based on my book).
Whatever helps science (and I consider myself helping science a lot; and those who help me help science) is moral. Whether its the rich taking from the poor to help me, or the poor helping me – helping science is so much more important and clearly a moral good that it doesn’t matter whether it was a left-or-right-wing ideology that tunneled money to science.
In other words: science I help science a lot I am worthwhile to invest in (it is universally moral; aliens would approve of it) – whether that money came from theft or inheritance or other ways doesn’t make much of a dent as long as it is invested in what is certainly moral: science.
I’ve watched the debates of atheists (Dawkins, Krauss, Hitchens, Harris) against religious people and the only things that hold religion up (the lack of a complete scientific existential theory and the universal morality) are things that I can defeat: I have the best scientific existential theory and I have a universal moral code. Religion has thus no place in the world-view I can derive and convince anyone of beginning from certain truths like the statements “I am” and “thought exists”.
The debates between atheists and religious people on youtube, when I watched them, always lacked a coherent step-by-step logical narrative by the atheists that takes everyone along the path to a certain full world-view. The atheists also never answered fundamental questions where religion has its domain: what is the existential theory and what is scientific morality? I watched over 200 courses by the best professors in the world to manufacture a step-by-step teaching series and to answer the questions where religion still held ground in the atheists vs religious debates.
I’m looking forward to a world where military spending is cut by alot because there no longer are world-view differences that spark crises in international relations. There will only be “normal crime” – rich vs. poor, and some vengeance (eventhough that too is lessened by a deeper understanding of ourselves and the universe). I’m looking forward to that the education system is changed so that even young children can comprehend that we live in an infinite sizescale (and the rest of the existential theory), etc. There are many things I look forward to that I think wil change once this universal world-view becomes mainstream.
Since I’ve inveted all three pillars of the existential theory myself, improved upon the typcal teaching of evolution (by adding that cavemen were hierarchical, wanted power and therefore their brain-size grew) and derived morality from the previously stated two examples, I expect to get some credit for having caused the coming paradigm-shift. That puts the spot-light on me, allowing me to help even more by clarifying which issues are important for humanity: the environment/climate, genetic engineering (to improve upon the human race) – without saying “education” because that can take care of itself without much financing as long as we rationally have people seek knowledge by the means they find most suitable for them – whether it be gaining that knowledge from authority, by curiosity, by means of empathy, for connection with aliens/the cosmos (universal knowledge shared by infinitely many planets) or because it is high status and there is peer-pressure to know certain elementary things like “why the sizescale exists”.
Using evolutionary theory coupled with anatomy we can finally fulfill the old maxim “know thyself”; we can know where the religious concepts of “soul” and “God” came from and which parts of any religion are distortions and unwanted fuzz added for worldly sakes.
Sub-book September 2016
Foreword
“It is religion that makes people retarded – if they had a void instead of religion, given the right external cultural surroundings, that void would be filled by science. Today religion blocks the intake of science by occupying that void” –
Jonatan Mustonen
The late Christopher Hitchens said, and I’ve come to agree, that religion is the main cause for hatred in the world. You see people of basically every religion claiming a holy person and holy book, and then hatred grows from that exclusive connection to the supposedly divine. You saw communism proclaim that once everyone is financially equal, that will be a universal scientific world-order. In debates you see religious people hold the view that morality comes from divine revelation, while the other side argues that it basically comes from the tummy: that it is inate in us (this of course isn’t the kind of ideological set-of-rules-with-a-goal morality that the islamists or communist want). In the indistrualized countries there is an existential crisis because the scientific world-view lacks morality i.e. seems immoral – so do dull that crisis there is a cycle of work, small-talk and meaningless entertainment on TV. The ones who have gotten everything materialism has to offer and have lived in wealth for a while sometimes go altruistic in wanting to help society, and that is as close to an ideological morality as there is – but it still lacks the philosophical underpinnings of how to best help society; it lacks the 20
th
century “key to history” (the goal of humanity) enthusiasm that both nazism and communism offered. “I’m so rich I might aswell help society in haphazard ways” lacks the appeal to rationality that the western intellectual tradition aims to provide – it isn’t thorough, based on fundamental logical principles, complete and agreed upon by every science-minded person.
The reason to study history is that similar circumstances tend to produce similar results because human nature never changes. If humans were profoundly different today compared to a historical yesterday, there’d be nothing to learn from history. The main point I’ve taken away from studying human evolution (what evolutionary pressure shaped our brains to be as they are) and brain-anatomy (which brain-circuitries are easily evolved, refined and are the basis for what intrests us / our motivations), is that there needs to be an appeal to some old evolved emotion in order for us to become intrested in whatever civilized pursuit we undertake. Maybe I should bribe you with a hamburger if you finish reading this book – or heaven or hell to make it more interesting. All jokes aside I believe the vast majority of those who will read this book do so because it is inate in us to be curious, to enjoy humor, to become more appealing to employers/partners/friends by knowing more, and so on.
We’ve got to involve our emotions in our civilized pursuits.
An ideological morality, thus, must take into account human nature; we can’t have an ideological morality without the engagement of our emotions. There must be an emotional push toward adopting an ideological morality (whether it be heaven or hell or the admiration of a larger-than-life ancient character’s revelations, in other words: carrots, sticks or peer-pressure). Since we find no carrots or sticks for being moral in the scientific world-view, we will rely on peer-pressure. Luckily this peer-pressure is enormous because there are infinitely many planets who have the same access to scientific truth that we have, and for us (our planet) to become more like their (more advanced) planets gives us the morality of doing whatever advances or spreads science – because then we “fit into the group”, the “group” being infintely many more planets where basic scientific concepts are so wide-spread that everyone there knows them.
To repeat: humans have an inate need to fit in to the surrounding cultural context, and on a cosmic scale there are infinitely many planets with a scientific culture. Ergo: we ought to become more scientific (do things that intend to or have the consequence of advancing or spreading science).
Here’s a test sentence to let yourself know if you got my point: in order to be “approved of” (social pressure) by infinitely many extraterrestrials, we ought to promote and advance the only path that leads to a world-view (a world-view is ideas and reasoned associations between those ideas) that comes from science. The infinitely many extreterristrials whoms world-view we want to imitate didn’t roll a dice or let historical accident decide which world-view they ought to have – they used scientific reasoning.
I can hear you ask: “but what if Hitler or Stalin would’ve imposed their (“one world – one race” and “one world – one class” respectively) world-view by winning World War 2?” There’s only so long that you can prevent/censor scientific discoveries, so in a long-enough time-span even these two tyrants wouldn’t have been able to stop scientific ideas from circulating. It was tried on Copenicus but it was human curiosity, impatience for something new and true, and an elite’s inability to control freedom of speech fully, that led to Copernicus’ heliocentric world-view to become mainstream knowledge. Point being that even if Hitler or Stalin would’ve taken over the whole world, planets tend to gravitate toward a scientific world-view anyway.
The universal world-view which planets tend to gravitate toward (regardless of being democracies or tyrannies) includes the peer-pressure-based morality of wanting to be like other planets, and thus finding that whatever promotes or advances science is moral. Science, of course, is minimalistic and sceptical in its theories (which is why Stalin’s claim that communism is scientific is false because its taken out of thin air without any underpinnings). This invariably leads to less diversity – it is not only right to believe all the right things, but it is also right to disregard all the untrue things. Its not sufficient – if you want to have the universal world-view – to believe all the scientific truths, you need also to rid yourself of your fantasies or elfs and santa-clauses. The first is more important than the second though: being educated and superstitious is better than knowing nothing but also believing in no falsehoods.
Its quite a subtle point I’m making: in order to be as close to our extraterrestrial brethren in world-view as possible we ought to have no illusions about unicorns and the like – because if each planet (or each society within each planet) chooses its own illusions to believe in, we are not as unified to the cosmic brotherhood as we could be. On the other hand it is reasonable to believe that our cosmic brethren emphasize happiness/peacefullness (for example they don’t torture animals for fun) and if some illusion gives you happiness/peacefullness you ought to keep it.
But the sceptical scientific attitude that our cosmic brethren share with our future selves places all illusions far apart from the scientific world-view, because of their different methods for proving that a claim is true.
Since NASA is still looking for extraterrestrial life it might seem that I’m on loose ground when I simply put forth that there indeed are extraterrestrials. The only reason I didn’t explain my proof for extraterrestrial intelligent life in the beginning of the book is because it takes a while to reason ourselves to that conclusion. This book is about a “world-view” which I define as ideas connected by reasoning (like rhyming words in rap are connected to other words to form sentences) and since I can’t transfer all my ideas and the connecting reasonings simultaneously through telepathy into your brain, I’ve got to start somewhere, but starting at this morality-topic calls upon later chapters in this book.
Why should you read this book?
World War 1 was about alliances, loyalties and honor – it wasn’t a crusade eventhough religion was used to preach war from the pulpit. World War 2 was about “one world – one race” and “one world – one class”-ideologies but even here religion played a role, like with the nazis wearing “Gott mit uns” (God with us) belt buckles. Eventhough religion has never been claimed to have been the main reason for both great wars, religion was used to boost military morale. After the Cold War there came attacks and wars which were, if not purely then mainly, religiously motivated. Generation Y thus has the goal of crushing the age-old religion in order to stop war in our age. We can get peace in our age by stopping religion.
Defeating the religious world-view and replacing it with a universal one, is the same task as educating people (the moral goal of other planets because they want to conform to universal scientific culture), which is the same task as environmentalism because other planets reasonably want a sustainable long-term living on their planets, which is the same task as reducing poverty and taking women off of the animal breeding-cycle by educating third-world nations, which is the same task as understanding the context (the scientific world-view model) within which ones own everyday life unfolds. Learning this world-view answers the meanigfull questions like “what kind of being am I?”, “what is this universe that I’m in?”, “what is morality?” and partly “what does the future hold in store for us?”, while building meaningful friendships because as flock-animals we tend to bond better with those who think like us (and science is a way of getting everyone to think alike – not produce ideas alike but the ideas being produced will be alike).
Military spending would be so much different if everyone agreed in the same world-view; the enthusiasm about many peoples life-purpose would be different if a scientific universal morality would be the north-star to their actions. In other words: to prove a particular world-view would change both the macrocosm geopolitically and the microcosm on an individual-to-individual basis. It would change the human relationship to religion and it would befriend us with one another because we can even derive art and rituals from science (as they do on infinitely many of our brethren planets). Again I’m revealing what will be proven later in this book.
What if the world would be reset religion-wise and we’d all be back on square one albeit with zones of poverty and zones of wealth? Politics would be all about money – not enemies of religion. Right now religion divides people, causes hate and steers money for the support of this or that religion against some other religion. What if all of humanity would unite under a single “religion” based on science? Atheist nations tend to mock highly religious nations, and religious nations tend to mock or fight one another based on the supposed superiority of one religion over another. That is an era coming to an end once science solves all fundamental philosophical problems that religions seem to answer (what are we? where did we come from? what does the universe tell us to do or how do other planets do?). That will unite the world in one, the only difference between nations being wealth instead of world-view.
Overpopulation is a problem which’s solution is education and contraceptives – religion blocks both those solutions. The science in this book is the answer to the question of education, and eliminating religion is the answer to the religious block of contraception.
Economic growth or decline among nations also is decided by who the USA considers its allies (meaning whomever adopts its values). Once my book goes mainstream all nations will be equally educated and thus worthy of growth.
“Hitler proposed that it was one race, Stalin proposed that it was one class – I propose that a single world-view is a step in the right direction.” – Jonatan Mustonen
Chapter 1
What is the opposite of separation? Descartes noticed separation when he made several separate claims: “I think/thought exists”, “I am/I exist” and the separation itself between the two earlier mentioned entities.
Call the opposite of separation what you want – you can’t see it. We can call it intertwinedness, oneness… You can’t see it because we/you/any observer is in separation – in Descartes’ realm – and the opposite of separation can’t be observed because observation is separation.
If you take “that of which all is part”, in other words: Reality with a capital R; it is one and has nothing (especially no observer) separate from it.
You might interject here saying that “sure, that of which all is part cannot be observed – but that only means that my brain’s representation of the real world is not the real world itself; the map is not the territory, the menu is not the meal”. In other words: its quite a petty conclusion that “Reality cannot be seen (because of the separation-intertwinedness-opposition) and that just means what every anatomist already knows about the brain: that it represents/maps.”
My answer to this is:
Yes, the brain represents. So let’s let one braincell represent the one unity of which all things are part. Or better yet: let’s let the smallest thing represent the rest of it (all things) including itself. Still the claim “that of which all is part cannot be represented/observed” must hold true as it basis itself of a fundamental conflict: that between separation and separation’s opposite (intertwinedness, Reality, oneness – call it what you will but you can’t see it). Even if we take the thought-experiment to its extremes and play around with letting everything represent everything, or the smallest thing represent everything, etc – we are working on a different level than the universe’s fundamental opposition between separation and intertwinedness. The separation-intertwinedness-clash comes first, and thus the “that of which all is part cannot be observed” comes first, and only later can counter-arguments be built to propose that the primordial arguments somehow only relate to humans/observers (“the menu is not the meal”) and not a fundamental clash of opposites in the universe.
Both separation and intertwinedness are properties of Nature and are so without humans conceiving them too. There are separate entities even if there were no-one to observe them, and there is intertwinedness (a singular Reality) even if there would be no-one contemplating it. Such matters exist and are true irrespective of human convictions and interventions and thus the separation-intertwinedness-clash is not subject to human cultivation of it – it is not the same as the map-territory-distinction which distinguishes our observations (the map) from what we observe (the territory). The separation-intertwinedness-clash is the fundamental fabric of Nature and part of the existential theory, while the map-territory-distinction is about humans and representations – there is a distinct leap of fundamentalness when jumping between the two: one is the starting mechanism of the cosmos while the other is about subjectivity.
“Reality can’t be observed” is just a shorthand way of saying “that of which all is part cannot be represented (no matter how liberal our definition of ‘represent’ is)”.
If not a human, nor the smallest thing, nor the largest thing can represent Reality (because of the serapation/representation/observertion-intertwinedness/onesness/Reality-clash), then what can we represent? Every object and every nook and corner of empty space has two parameters: a size and a time. Everything we know has its size and it exists, has existed or will exist at some time. We can thus draw a size-time-diagram with size on one axis and time on the other. Everything from galaxies to humans to quantum particlewaves fits in there somewhere because they are located both on the size-axis (vertical) and time-axis (horizontal).
As a footnote to refer back to extraterrestrial civilization’s utilization of this diagram: their (as did ours) history of science went from the stone age to the bronze age to the iron age and it was first with sculpted glass and metals that the first telescopes and microscopes were invented. This history doesn’t differ on other planets, and the following doesn’t differ either: for centuries the microscope-user’s head was turned down as he looked downard on some small specimin, while the telescope-user’s head was turned upwards looking at far-away planets. Since this history of ours in all likelyhood is the same as the history on other planets (it would be a joke if they looked at tiny specimins in the roof with their microscopes and had their telescopes pointed toward the ground), we draw the sizerange diagram with “up” representing “large” and “down” representing “small”. Other planets would’ve also posed the question “which parts of this diagram are universal and the same on infinitely many intelligent planets?” and would’ve come up with the same conclusion: our knowledge about the large came from men whom had their necks bent backwards looking upward, and our knowledge about the small came from men leaned over looking downards – and so it is on other planets and thus those planets (in wanting their scientific world-view to be as universal as possible) represent large upwards and small downwards on the sizerange diagram.
The only reasonable axis left to put the time-axis on is the horizontal one:
In total we get a square (a two-axis diagram) where both axises are contiuums but for human understanding’s sake it is worthwhile to split these continuums into distinct parts so that objects (galaxies, humans, atoms) can be shown as pictures within the parts made distinct in this continuous diagram:
Now we are going to touch upon one of the pillars/foundations for the existential theory: is the sizerange infinite or not? In other words: is there infinitely small and infinitely large?
1: The conclusion gained from juxtaposing separation with intertwinedness led us to conclude that intertwinedness is one (all is part of it) – it other words: is has no distinctions such as limits or borders. Something without distiguished phenomena (Reality) would have distinctions if it had an upper-limit to size, therefore it doesn’t have an upper limit to size. Phenomena that distinguish one part from the other (such as a limit to size i.e. a border) would negate the proposition that the Reality/intertwinedness we are talking about is the Reality/intertwinedness – if it had borders it would fall into the realm of separation (which is the opposite of intertwinedness). The opposite of separation – call it “non-separation” – doesn’t have separation in the form of limits/borders. The sizerange is infinite.
Here is a metaphor which of course not helps in seeing Reality/intertwinedness/oneness (the opposite of separation) as nothing does, but which reveals something about the nature of reality:
imagine the densest gray solid replacing every particle of mass and filling every void of space. This gray solid is everywhere and there is no way to orient yourself in this gray solid: you can´t distinguish up from down, nor one object from another. In fact, there are no objects but only the gray solid.
If the gray solid would include/intertwine you into itself you would no longer be an observer; no longer separate.
Think about this. Does it make sense for this gray solid to have a maximum and minimum size? I.e. if in this non-separated gray solid there is no separation, can one size be separate from another by it being the maximum or minimum and other sizes non-maximum and non-minimum?
No – and therefore the sizerange is infinite.
2: Einstein’s theory of relativity proved that no point in space is supreme/absolute – they are all relative to another. There is no center of the universe. Einstein was talking about space, but his reasoning can be expanded because size is just another form of space: there is no supreme/absolute/center size. Each size should be equivalent to every other size in that none are absolute. Empiricism i.e. our sense-impressions tell us that the human size looks to be approximately the center size because theres an equally big leap in amplification of the human size get to the largest known size, as there is an equally big shrinking of the human to get to the smallest known size. A finite sizescale represents the prospect of finding the “absolute center size” and that goes against Einstein’s theory of relativity according to which both space (and its cousin size) are not absolute, they are relative – there is no center size but there looks to be one as we have limits to our knowledge about the rest of the infinite sizecale. Those who believe in a finite sizescale believe themselves able to easily calculate the “center of the sizescale” and thus find what contradict with Einsteins theory about relativity of space (and size). Space and size are identical (they both can be three-dimensional) so Einsteins theory of “no space is the true center” must also apply to size, meaning “no level/size in the sizescale can be a center”.
3: Mathematics easy zoom out into infinitely large numbers and zoom in on infinitely small numbers; the integral can use infinite large zoomed-out sizes and the derivative can use infinitely small zoomed-in sizes. Whether this relates to the question “is the sizescale infinite?” remains to be discussed – its a discussion about mathematics and nature relate and there hasn’t been a definitive answer about whether an infinite number means that infinity exists in the world world. Regardless I wanted to include mathematics in my collection of proofs for why I think the sizescale can be proven to be infinite – some it will convince and some it will not. The layers of the sizescale are just begging to be numbered: from the smallest/lowest layer to the highest/largest layer. Number is infinite and continuous and so too is the sizescale.
4: Is the relationship between any two sizes an unbreakable law of nature? The relationship is “justification” or “makes sense of…” An atom justifies a molecule and a molecule justifies an atom – either would be unable to exist without the other: their sizes (molecule being larger) have a relationship called “justification”. The
size
of a tomato justifies the existence of the
size
of a melon and vice versa.  They don’t make sense without oneanother’s sizes. Let’s take the smallest known size (the Planck-length (1.6 * 10
-35
meters)) and build a size the smallest increment larger than that. The relationship of “justification” held. Now repeat this building-process incrementally one Planck-length at a time until you’ve reached the largest known size (the visible universe). How many increments did that take? I’d say: so many that the relationship between any two sizes – the relationship being that one size justifies another and vice versa; one size makes sense of another and vice versa – in this experiment, proves the relationship between any two sizes as firmly as the law as Newton’s universal gravitation has been proven. Could it be that at some (the very largest) size this law of justification inbetween sizes is broken? That would be the case if there was a maximum size with nothing larger justifying it. If you believe in a finite sizescale you must accept that the size-to-size relationship of justification is a law of nature only for a finite range of sizes (and so not a real law of nature because it is broken at the maximum and the minimum). If you believe in an infinite sizescale then the size-to-size relationship of justification is a law of nature (that continous with the infinitely small and large). This argument is all about whether you regard the relationship between two sizes as a law of nature or just something that is true everytime we inspect it but the universe can diverge from it (“break the law”) thus producing a maximum and minimum size (i.e. a finite sizescale).
I ordered these arguments with the most convincing first and the more dubious last. It’s sufficient that you agree with at least one for you to believe that the sizerange to be infinite.
Next we’ll examine which fruits fall from the tree of having proven that the sizescale is infinite. One fruit is sour and its one of the pillars/fundaments to the existential theory, the second fruit is sweet and proves that there are infitely many extraterrestrials (even in places we didn’t know they’d be).
The Sour Fruits
There are three pillars/fundaments to my existential theory. One we already talked about: the existence of separation in intertwinedness; the opposites combined. Eventhough I’ve been working with the separation-intertwinedness-clash for years, I still feel like proving to myself once more that it still is true – its such an unintuitive way of thinking that I feel like checking once again that it still holds true. It does hold true every time and we can call it “the unthinkable thought” because it’s:
“the” = one. Reality is singular.
“unthinkable” = neither brainhalf can capture it; it can’t be captured as a word nor an imagination. Nothing represents it eventhough words can refer to it.
“thought” refers to our subjectivity, reminding us that we are working with thoughts and that none of these thoughts represents all of Reality. No matter how much in our favor we define the word “represent” nor how much we represent, comes close to outweighing the infinity of the sizescale derived from the fundamental separation-intertwinedness-clash.
The first sour fruit – the first pillar/fundament – of our existential theory is thus the unthinkable thought i.e. the separation-intertwinedness-clash. If we want to examine why separation itself exists, we must include and conclude that it is together with and bound to its opposite: intertwinedness. Without intertwinedness no separation and vice versa. We can call this “the invisible pillar” because the reasoning required for it elevates our minds to the level of talking about the unthinkable thought.
We’ve talked about how reasoning about separation plus intertwinedness summons the concept “the unthinkable thought” and that it proves that the sizerange is infinite. We thus have two out of three pillars of our existential theory: the one we haven’t looked into in detail is the “energymasspacetime”-part.
The first thing to note about this picture is that “separation + intertwinedness” is synonymous with “the unthinkable thought”: the unthinkable thought led us to “an infinite sizescale” but since the unthinkable thought itself, by being the separation-intertwinedness-clash, is also one of the pillars/fundamentals to the existential theory.
Another of the pillars of the sour existential theory is E=mc
2
: The E=m-part (energy equals mass-part) of the equation involves energymass. Because a speed is a distance (which is space) over time, the c
2
-part (speed of light squared-part) involves spacetime. E=mc
2
involves both energymass and spacetime. E=mc2 is energymass and spacetime in the same equation.
E=mc
2
intertwines energymass with spacetime, giving rise to the word “energymasspacetime” as a synonym for Reality. It is impossible to have movement without something moving (unifying energy and mass) and movement requires space and time (unifying energymass with spacetime). The main discovery derived from E=mc
2
is the fact that Reality is one i.e. energymass and spacetime are in the same equation.
Energymass is a synonym for “everything” and spacetime is a synonym for “nothing”. In the E=mc
2
-equation energymass and spacetime are joined with a multiplication sign.
Nothingness is “a priori” meaning it doesn’t need a prior reason/justification “for its existence” – because it doesn’t exist: its very definition is nothing. Our brains can confuse us regarding this if we don’t keep apart our brain-cell (and therefore energymass) –based representation of “nothingness” from nothingness itself; separate the map-nothingness from the territory-nothingness. I usually say “nothingness is emptier than you can imagine it”.
Most would agree that 1=1 is an equation inherent in spacetime; the universe cannot be absurd even if its empty. If there were a triangle Pythagoras’ theorem would apply to it. Laws of nature are true even in empty space.
Do you believe E=mc
2
is a law of nature which is true about nothing/non-existence just like Pythagoras’ theorem or 1=1 was? I do, and thus energymass is “mentioned” in non-existence (nothingness/non-existence, like we said, does not need prior justification because it is an empty framework with its laws of nature).
If energymass is mentioned in nothingness but not summoned, reality has basically made small talk or empty chatter – it “talks about” energymass without there being any substance to it. If this sounds impossible, the only resolution is for energymass to be summoned (i.e. made into existence).
As soon as there is nothing/non-existence (which does not need justification) there are laws of nature (such as E=mc
2
) and energymass is mentioned, and as soon as energymass is mentioned energymass is summoned.
Thus we can conclude that the universe can only go an infinitely short amount of time (i.e. no time) before nothingness summons energymass. Should energymass be summoned in one place before another location? Einstein’s theory of relativity suggests “no”, but a more convincing argument is that it should be summoned in infinitely small spaces because E=mc
2
is mentioned in the infinitely small spaces. This means that energymass or the big bang starts infinitely dense.
Infinitely dense energymass is summoned in infinite spacetime and splits apart as hot things do.
The mechanism for re-creating the big bang is for the universe to become less dense until the density is zero i.e. the universe is empty. The universe accomplishes this by accelerating cosmic expansion and black holes.
If the density can reach zero i.e. if our three dimensions of space no longer contain any energymass, then what is the purpose of the law of nature “E=mc
2
” which must be true even in empty space? As soon as there is zero density i.e. perfect emptiness energymass can be and is summoned. It begins as infinitely dense because it is summoned in the smallest spaces simultaneously. Every nook and cranny of infinite emptiness is filled all at once because E=mc
2
(and the summoning) is true everywhere at once.
Why something rather than nothing? Because nothing – which does not prompt the question: “why does nothing exist?” (Because it doesn´t “exist”) has the laws of nature which include E=mc
2
. In nothing existence is allowed.
If existence existed in something other than nothing that would be absurd; impossible. Existence exists as an infinite sizescale of one in zero (energymass in spacetime).
To summarize: E=mc
2
– or energymasspacetime if you will – “everything and nothing in the same equation” is one of the pillars of the existential theory. Another pillar is the infinity of the sizerange. Yet another pillar is that separation happens in (or is “multiplied with”; “intertwined with”) intertwinedness; eventhough separation and intertwinedness are opposites, they are still together.
This three-pillar (“three sour fruits”) existential theory leaves us with an infinite sizescale of energymasspacetime (with separation + intertwinedness), and somewhere in such a “thing” (I’m primarily simplifying and referring to the infinite sizerange) there was a reproducing shape and thus evolution. In fact: there should be infinitely many subregions of the infinite sizerange where reproducing shapes occur: but they all dwell inside the existential theory that I’ve just laid out, meaning that if they can possibly access science and do, the same theory presented here will dawn upon them too. We have cosmic brethren not only as extraterrestrials on infinitely many planets in infinite space, but we also have “reproducing regions of the sizescale” infinitely many times in the infinite sizescale (meaning regions where a reproducing shape can occur).
On other planets too they’d use the same picture:
to prove that the sizerange is infinite:
and there too they’d represent large/small as the up/down directions respectively due to their history of microscopes and telescopes, leaving the horizontal axis for time:
And they would derive their morality from their evolved need to conform to the “group” (social pressure): the group being infinitely many extraterrestrials with an identical set of ideas and associations between them – as the brain wiring (“culture”) we gain from science. Their morality thus is to advance and spread this universal science.
Does the energymasspacetime-sizescale (existential theory) give morality? When we contemplate where we live – among infinitely many similar aliens (with same science and similar evolutionary history and thus brain circuitry) – and feel the peer pressure to conform to them (the majority), we can’t do anything but spread science.
God
“As the great physicist Laplace said when he demonstrated his working model (his orrery, as it’s called) of the solar system to the emperor and Napoleon said, ‘Well I see there’s no God in this system,’ and Laplace said, ‘Well, Your Majesty, it works without that assumption.’” – Christopher Hitchens
The existential theory begins from assuming nothing (nothing = spacetime) and logically builds upon it until reaching an infinite sizescale and thus the start of evolution: a reproducing shape. It doesn’t need any additional assumptions such as God – but we might have found a synonym for a certain kind of God: the unthinkable thought / Reality. Afterall, separation plus intertwinedness are such primitive concepts that the conclusions arising from them could’ve been and propably were realized in the very infanthood of the human race. You can imagine a caveman or primitive proto-human/monkey pondering the most overarching (Reality = that of which all is part) and then its opposite or perhaps Descartes’ most personal self (and thus separation). Then the idea would’ve been formulated in the most advanced language to them (which is primitive/unscientific to us moderns), and we had a word like “God” instead of the more descriptive “the unthinkable thought” or “energymasspacetime-sizescale”. Then people added to this concept ideas like talking to it, it talking to a self-claimed prophet; dogmas, rituals and laws. It does have certain “dogmas” which is science; it has certain “rituals” like the diagrams shown in this book (which can be drawn as hand-signs); it even has morality because infinitely many extraterrestrial see their evolved social conformity-instinct pushing them to unify the world into one scientific world-view (producing and spreading science).
It’s ironic that we have the saying known by everyone: “holy shit!”, eventhough we don’t have a thorough science of why our brain reacts to and has created that statement. It joins the very greatest with the very smallest (or some would say: most personal) – its the most gigantic contrast you can linguistically create and is so close to the “intertwinedness-separation = unthinkable thought = existential theory”–scientific theory. Einstein, by presenting E=mc
2
which unified energymass with spacetime into the opposite of separation, and Descartes by presenting “I think and I exist and that is separation” are a fancy way of saying “holy shit”; or if you will: the divide between the divine and earthly. The medievals obviously possessed this science but had added a lot of clutter to it which was based on ancient promises (revelations), and they had a vaguer vocabulary for presenting it than I have.
How would you summarize what you’ve read so far? You’ve defeated a false god/religion; you’ve found the core of religions; you’ve got an existential theory which “doesn’t need that (or any) assumption”…
We can expand this theory to the topic of morality – in essence “doing what extraterrestrials do (because they derive their belongingness-to-the-group-behavior from science too)”; we all thrive to be “universal” as much as we can – first culturally and then genetically. The only thing needed to derive morality from the existential theory is to understand how evolution led from the first reproducer to the social behavior of wanting to belong culturally to a “stronger majority”/”the winning team”. We are evolved to seek power in numbers (to be flock-dwelling instead of individualists) and we refined that trait to want to become allies with whoever will turn out to be the winner in the future; the universal culture presented in this book is both superior in numbers (science tends to find a path towards it) and it is the culture that will “win” (because a logical ideology tends to become mainstream).
Instead of asking “what would Jesus do?” we can ask “what would infinitely many extraterrestrials put peer-pressure on us to do, based on that they like science?”; we have a trait that makes us want to fit in with the “winner’s team” and this scientific culture is that winner’s team – the winner being any civilization that has come this far in science.
I don’t expect you to understand this diagram in this one go; in a programming book its worthwhile to present some source-code early in order for the reader to get a glimpse of what one will be dealing with later.
The mind diagrams (H,D,E,F,I,J,G) are connected to the evolutionary sets of unfolding principles (A,B,C). When finding a trait or function of the brain (in humans, say) the full answer that explains that function/trait is both evolutionary (the triangle) and anatomical (the mind diagrams (H,D,E,F,I,J,G)). The only evolved & anatomical function we need to understand is that we want to belong to the winner’s team; this arose after we became flock-dwelling animals but before a more recent trait like abstract language arose (let’s say this is line B in the evolutionary triangle and in the region J in the proof-checking mechanism (left and right brainhalf) and the category E (the social circuits) in the hard-wired lower part of the brain (and it is also in G but that’s a sidenote)). The circuitry for joining the stronger group comes from the principle in evolution that “teams tend to out-compete individualists in fights”; we use that trait of ours to join the universal team by learning universal ideas.
Evolution and the mind-diagrams allow us to understand one brain/person, and in order to understand two or more persons we just add more copies of the same general mind-diagram (with its own unique history in the triangle-shaped diagram). This has us on the verge of understanding large groups of people: societies, countries, politics, what to vote for (if we do the further task of predicting the future of all these brains)… I don’t think anyone can claim to understand, however, using this science, the entire world’s population and its best interest (with clashes between long-term and short-term benefits of two different rivaling politics, or clashes regarding left-and-right-wing class-politics). Jon Stewart would insert a joke here saying something about that: “I can barely understand my own brain for a moment (using this diagram/science); sometimes two or three brains during the next emotion; and the world is arguing about billions of brains for thousands of years with fundamental clashes which lead to even more uncertainties. And the argument doesn’t sound like the nitpicking scientific discourse about a topic cluttered with unknown events – instead everyone is so certain of their position”.
What I’ve developed and point to is the right path (to understanding things like “what to vote for”), but I haven’t developed a billion-brain complex diagram of the entire future of the planet and that’d obviously be impossible for me. For some, what’s frustrating about politics is that one is forced to vote (not going to the voting booth is in essence the same as voting for all parties equally) eventhough one is not ready for the nitpicking extremely complex anatomy-involving predictions required; the forcefullness in pushing people into the system is what makes it frustrating. One thing one can vote for though is to invest in DNA-research and –engineering so that we can come to terms with this anatomy that we’re dealing with better.
The extraterrestiral diagrams
Morality
I heard that in the USA its a virtue to try to become rich. Its an inate instinct to want to accumulate resources ad infinitum, but the USA has made it its leading ideology. That’s one ideology/morality… I know that science has its own morality which is to perpetuate itself, meaning those who adopt the scientific morality invest in furthering science. To me The Teaching Company (TTC) are “the big boys” (the most high-status group) and Donald Trump (the current presidential candidate) lives in an old paradigm becasuse he wants to make the USA richer because the USA is his group because its based on his christian-capitalist worldview – but that’s all going to change when a new non-christian scientific ideology replaces the old paradigm. I think people will invest their time in education that I give, and their money in projects that can be concluded, based on science, to be what the universe itself (or science) wants us to do. First among these projects is to educate all people into a single world-view, then investing in morally good projects like fusion, genetic engineering and sustainable energy.
My morality tells me that what is good is developing and working intellectually to cause as much global commotion using the pen as possible.
When I only had an existential theory and an account of evolution, my theory wasn’t engaging eventhough it crushed religion. Now my theory has morality (how people ought to act and invest in) and that’s as engaging as nazism was for the germans. I’ve made a scientific “what to do”-theory.
Sub-book November 2016
Religious undercurrents have been the reason for military spending for millennia. During the second world-war and the cold war religious conflict was put in the background, but emerged again with 9/11. Religion is learned and can thus be called culture. More precisely it’s a belief system about cosmogenesis, the place of humans in a larger context… – a world-view, put simply. To reduce military spending by reducing religious conflict involves convincing everyone of the same world-view. This world-view however lacks some of the positive aspects of religion such as talking to God (someone that listens), rituals and dogmas (like heaven). But like Hitchens said: “I’m not here to tell you whatever makes you feel good – I’m asked to debate what’s true”. Hitchens also said that the reason Obama invited Iran to join the family of nations was because Iran isn’t part of the family of nations – for the exact reason that Iran brings religion into geopolitics (it’s the ISLAMIC republic of Iran). The same can be said about zealous Jewish settlers, the conflict between Pakistan and India and so many other conflicts where religion plays a role in mongering hate. Hitchens believed that the main reason for hate in today’s world is religion. Convincing everyone of a thorough thought-out all-explaining world-view-diagram puts religion lower on the pedestal since logic trumps belief. If everything can be explained scientifically, religion fulfills the gaps left by science: “toys” to play with and rituals.
The second world-war was about finding the key to history: Hitler proposed that it was one race, Stalin proposed that it was one class – I propose that a single world-view is a step in the right direction. If everyone can share the scientific world-view – which is fastest and most clearly taught using a particular diagram – then the geopolitical religious conflicts will dissipate and the world will be heading in the right direction because a world unified in world-view is a key to progressing history.
The cosmogenesis-part of the diagram involves the Big Bang as one pillar and proving that the size-range is infinite automatically brings about evolution, putting the final nail in the coffin of both the evolutionary theory and of the Big Bang-theory. Today these two theories aren’t as widely known as they should be and they get argued against because they’re not presented in the “certain logic”-way of the diagram. The Big Bang-theory and the evolutionary theory are faulty in the way they are taught and this diagram-pedagogy should put the nail in the coffin so that the two theories are better understood and understood by a larger part of the world population than they are today.
Hitchens thought that we’d soon find out what happens when a messianic apocalyptic government gets hold of a weapon of mass-destruction. To reduce that fear – and the global military spending that comes with it – it’s worthwhile to learn and spread an ideology that rivals those of the second world war (Hitler’s one race and Stalin’s one class) – one worldview for all of humanity.
This diagram is the fastest known way of teaching all of science or at least the summarizing picture of all of science, and it’s also a permanent diagram in the sense that this world-view/diagram is unlikely to change in the next millions of years. Other planets where life is millions of years ahead of us in the scientific revolution this exact same diagram would be derived from the universal science they have access to.
At the most macro-perspective the diagram comes in three segments: the sizescale, evolution and the three mind-diagrams. The sizescale can be subdivided into all of the hard fields of science: cosmology, quantum physics, anatomy and so on. The second segment – evolution – can be narrated as a continuous coherent story where traits build upon previous traits resulting in an ever more complex animal (and this complexity-increase is represented by the triangle-shape). The three mind-diagrams are in two different levels because the third mind-diagram is the sum of the first two mind-diagrams: the two first mind-diagrams together becomes the third mind-diagram. The mind-diagrams are connected to points in evolution because anatomies in the mind arose as mutations in the DNA in evolution.
Is there more to explain than the infinite (of which part is knowable) size-continuum in which the human body is a particular size in the middle of the known sizescale, evolution and brain-anatomy? Everything – even words like God and Soul – can be understood in the context of this world-view/diagram.  There really is nothing that is left outside this diagram; everything fits in this diagram. The things inside human perception utilize the mind-diagrams (and evolution by proxy) and all real-world objects fit in the size-time diagram. This picture is thus in a sense a completion of the scientific mission – and it arose from having seen university-level courses about every existing subject. There is nothing more mysterious i.e. there is nothing that doesn’t fit into this diagram. It’s a complete world-view, though a cumbersome one because humans aren’t used to seeing their world-view as a picture in front of them – that’s the human bias: to not draw diagrams even though that is the scientific method.
Teaching this scientific method/diagram/world-view to the world-community would alleviate military tensions that arise from cultural/religious/world-view-differences. Military spending can arise from this list of reasons:
– One world one race (Hitler),
– One world one class (Stalin),
– One world one religion (9/11, zealots, terrorists),
– Economic differences (poverty).
The first two reasons are outdated but are further crushed by a scientific world-view, the third reason is my main target with this book, and I expect to have no impact on economic differences by publishing this science. Economic differences don’t warrant armies per se but are more suited to be controlled by police-forces – the difference between military and police are blurred when it comes to subduing violence that arises from economic differences. When it comes to religious extremism/terrorism combating it with armies has only proved slightly successful – appeasing phenomena like ISIS would’ve been devastating but the blasting power of modern explosives makes asymmetric warfare/terrorism have a biased advantage over traditional armies. The kind of asymmetric terrorism the world faces today cannot be combated full-out by traditional armies – there needs to be an ideological battle that goes to the root of the problem: religion. My book goes in-depth on how to create a logical world-view which is easily taught and learned, and which promotes a multiculturalism i.e. religious ambiguity regarding which rituals to perform and which dogmas to believe (if one indeed can believe any). My world-view offers a diagram which can be synopsized as a square (the size-time coordinate system), a triangle (evolutionarily increasing complexity) and three mind-diagrams on two different levels. This then offers an awkward hand-side where fingers are put in the shape of a square, a triangle and three fingers on two different levels. My “religion” offers a hand-sign consisting of three movements of the hands and a diagram that can be drawn on a t-shirt – but other religions offer much more ritual and dogma than my religion offers. I can understand the want to have more ritual than can be derived from science and it is up to private people to follow whatever rituals they choose, if they choose any. However in geopolitics there is no need to force others to follow rituals they don’t consent to; there’s no need to have military spending based on differing sets of dogmas and rituals. My book accomplishes that: removes religion from geopolitics, making geopolitics an academic discipline in which this diagram is best used for decision-making and bridging world-view-gaps. Once my science-diagram goes mainstream and reaches terrorists, the terrorists would have to argue against my diagram – and failing to do this they will no longer be terrorists because my diagram offers a full-world-view without a heaven and without a specific set of dogmas/rituals (other than the diagram itself and its derivative hand-gestures). Religiously driven murder will disappear once my book is understood and mainstream. Both the macro-level geopolitical waste of resources on military spending because of phenomena like religious governments (the Jewish state or the Islamic republic), and the micro-level terrorism and occupation of land are lessened conflicts if my book goes mainstream. Having “one world – one worldview” does that, and my book argues that the diagram represents the world-view that will be accepted as true millions of years from now and on millions of other planets that have science too.
This book might feel like you are going back to school, looking at coordinate-system diagrams, tracing evolution and looking at how circuits in the mind arose. This sizescalianism is its own -ism – rivaling Stalinism or Hitlerism – and thus it is for the greater good to make this book mainstream even though “philosophy” might be your cup of tea. Making this book mainstream is a military tactic which will defeat ISIS on an ideological level, so you’re basically lessening terrorism by reading and spreading this book. It will to most people be more of a duty than a leisurely pleasure – just like school was. This diagram is what will be taught in schools millions of years from now, and by learning it now it helps knock out terrorism and reduces your tax bill by reducing geopolitical instability due to world-view differences.
ATIWAAT
“… And this is what aliens also think”. This phrase can be repeated so many times in this book that it deserves its own abbreviation. In fact, both regarding individual ideas in this book and the general structure of this book, hopefully, the phrase “and this is what aliens also think” can be added – both referring to the idea at hand and the manner in which it is taught. Using ATIWAAT (the abbreviation for “and this is what aliens also think”) as a guiding star results in a teaching style and a taught message that is universal because it’s based on science. Scientific teaching and trying to say what aliens on other planets say are synonymous to each other. The only way we can approach what aliens think, feel, how they clothe themselves etc. is by using science i.e. deriving from “thin air” (or logic itself) what lies inherent in our universe. This then becomes a diagram in which multiple parts are known (such as the proportions of homeostatic to social circuits in our emotions) and some parts can be imagined in multiple ways (such as the sizescale being a size-time-diagram as a two-dimensional coordinate system but also a layered set of TV-screens – and a continuous size-range too).
In fact, each location with a %-symbol is calculated to be universal. This book can thus take the form of explaining exactly what is universal – and thus what aliens think on other planets – at each location where the %-sign is.
In this first cutout we notice three %-signs at the bottom signifying three categories of emotional (old-brain) circuits. Starting with the leftmost of these %-signs/categories we have the homeostatic circuits. This is “ATIWAAT” because on other planets they’d too distinguish between emotions internal to them and external stimuli coming through the senses. By having this distinction we have two categories – the two first %-signs (the second sign being social/external circuits). The third %-sign signifies a smaller category of circuits which are to be distinguished (ATIWAAT) from the homeostatic and the social/external circuits: these are the “cortex-idle”-circuits that become active when the cortex otherwise would’ve been idle and not useful. By having a cortex that activates itself when in – to draw a parallel to computers: when the screensaver is on – was an evolutionary benefit (ATIWAAT) because it allows us to plan for power, reproductive strategies (sexual fantasies) and plan for resource gathering. In other words: in our idle time males plan for how to climb upward in the socioeconomic hierarchy, how to accumulate more resource-value and reproductive strategies. Females also plan reproductive strategies but instead of trying to climb the hierarchy like males do they map out the hierarchy to find a partner with both status and loyalty. Females too plan for how to gather resources. These cortex-idle-activities utilize an otherwise inactive cortex – inactive because no homeostatic (internal) nor external need interrupts and awakens them – to do something useful. Evolution (ATIWAAT) favors those who rarely very truly idle but used their “idle” time to plan for social mobility, resource gathering, learning from remembered past mistakes and successes, predicting the future as accurately as possible (and we use this for developing out world-view/diagram/scientific understanding), etc. The cortex-idle category of circuits marked by the rightmost %-sign is a smaller number of circuits than the other two larger categories. In other words: we have quite a few tasks we start dealing with when we don’t have homeostatic nor social/external curriculums to be attended to.
Needless to say: this is an anatomical diagram which uses evolution to explain why the circuit exists as it does. It comes as a sizescale i.e. it can be zoomed into, all the way to the level of neurotransmitters and cells.
The large %-sign on the line that separates the upper box from the lower box signifies that our emotional repertoire consists of hard-wired (DNA-determined) circuitry while the upper box consists of flexible connections where DNA just enables the approximate skill handled by that cluster of neurons and allows for a great deal of flexibility in the wiring. The large %-sign thus signifies (ATIWAAT) the separation between the cortex and the old-brain; the hard-wired and the flexible halves of the brain. They are an upper and a lower box because the old-brain came first and is thus closer to the brain-stem and spinal cord, while the cortex (flexible part) evolved later and is thus further away from the center of the brain. Other planets thus don’t draw this diagram as a left-and-right box but the ATIWAAT-way to do it is to draw it as an upper box (away from brain-stem) and lower box (closer to brain-stem). The lower box is then separated into three (ATIWAAT) categories, the third (most recent one) being the smallest number of circuits (the “cortex-idle circuits”).
The sizescale
The sizescale is continuous and can thus be drawn as this:
The lower parts represent the smaller and the upper part the larger. Downward means smaller and upward means larger. When drawn as continuous the distinct sizes (or objects of those sizes) can’t be seen, so what we must do is to filter out most sizes i.e. select a few sizes and show them as if on TV-screens stacked from up to down.
Instead of representing time like a TV-screen represents time, one can “unwind the videotape” to put many sizescales next to one another representing time on the horizontal axis.
This size-time-diagram is a coordinate system into which every object of any time or size fits. Everything we can possibly imagine fits into some size and some time i.e. on one location on the size-time-diagram.
To account for the expanding universe (cosmic expansion) the size-time-diagram can be drawn like this:
In this picture you can see that the big bang is accounted for by the knowable sizescale becoming infinitely small at the lower left, then a period of fast cosmic expansion, then a decreasing rate of cosmic expansion, then accelerating cosmic expansion.
If the sizescale is infinite then there should be a reproducing shape somewhere in an infinite sizescale.
The %-sign in this part of the picture represents where evolution (the triangle) meets the sizescale. The touchpoint size-wise where the tip of the triangle touches the sizescale was approximately the size of the currently smallest life-forms.
An infinite sizescale
I already mentioned that evolution makes sense in an infinite sizescale – and the easiest evidence for an infinite sizescale is studying cosmology and assuming space is infinite i.e. the sizescale is infinite up-wise (toward the larger), and using Einstein’s theory of relativity to state that no size is the “absolute” size (but every size is relative to one another) it means that the human size is not infinitely close to the “bottom” of the sizescale. There is no bottom because space is infinite and no size is special (relativity).
There is however a more definitive proof that the sizescale is infinite. It relies on combining the philosophies of Einstein and Descartes into the conclusion that we cannot see Reality and thus that there is more to Reality than can be seen. “Seen” in this context means some symbiosis of contemplated and observed.
Descartes realized two things: that there is the thinker and that there is the thought. This division/separation between observer and observed / thinker and thought is exactly that: separation. The opposite of separation is unseeable but we can call it “intertwinedness” or oneness. Reality is such oneness as observed (excuse the pun) in the equation E=mc
2
. By writing Descartes realization that “there is thinker and thought (separation)” and Einstein’s realization that “Reality is energymasspacetime (all in the same equation)” on opposite sides of a paper juxtaposes two opposites: Descartes with Einstein; separation with intertwinedness.
It goes without saying that we are observers and thus in Descartes realm of separate entities – in other words we don’t observe all things as one because that would include an observerless state because the observer too shouldn’t be separate.
In a coming chapter on how the left-right-brainhalf proofchecking mechanism works we’ll return to the subject of “Reality (defined as “that of which all is part”) can’t be seen”, but suffice it to say for now that we have a natural apprehension toward the unthinkable.
This unthinkable whole is a size-time-diagram but is also infinite and thus can’t be drawn. It is not a location or region within the size-time-diagram but instead is the meta to the diagram. It is what some people call God. All-encompassing, unseeable and one.
Infinite justification
The sizescale is:
infinite (in length/size/larger & smaller) and
infinite justification.
The proverb is “everything happens for a reason” – the reason for everything happening is size-time-justification; whatever happens is justified in size and time.
We’ve already looked at the size-time-diagram (the sizescale), and it is worth pointing out what the relationship between the layers/sizes is: it is justification. The smaller justifies the larger and the larger justifies the smaller. “Justifies” just means “makes sense of”, in the sense that atoms make sense of molecules and molecules make sense of atoms. They justify oneanother’s existence; they’re the reason for eachother’s existence. If the sizescale is infinite justification size-wise (both upward toward the larger and downward toward the smaller) then that is one of the two pillars of the existential theory: the reason why there is a sizescale in the first place is that the “first reason” keeps retreating infinitely low/high in the infinite sizescale.
Lines between evolution and the mind-diagram
The mind diagrams (H,D,E,F,I,J,G) are connected to the evolutionary sets of unfolding principles (A,B,C). When finding a trait or function of the brain (in humans, say) the full answer that explains that function/trait is both evolutionary (the triangle) and anatomical (the mind diagrams).
This all of course happens in the sizescale (visually connects to the sizescale-diagram) but on a different level in the depth-dimension.
Sub-book years 2011-2016
The brain: how does the human brain work, think and anticipate?
Preface
The world needs science to bridge the gap between different cultures, different religions. This book presents that science.
Introduction:
The Anatomy of History
The history of your day today can be understood as the universal human behavior interacting in its environment. If we understand the anatomy of the human brain, we can understand what it is that causes behaviors – for example hunger evolved for obvious reasons and every day hijacks our behavior for food-seeking.
It is the anatomy of the brain that drives us to seek food, thus not only leaving records in our immediate experience if we are currently eating, nor only in our memory if we have recently eaten, but also historical and archeological records of feeding. Thus Napoleon´s actions were guided by the anatomy of the human brain. I will argue that all of every humans´ behaviors can be understood in anatomy; in a best-case scenario, by looking at images from microscopes that show the anatomy of issues needing understanding urgently such as [wanting power] or [religion].
This text will be somewhat of a list, but will follow the following scientific method:
The evolutionary reasons for this behavior to be selected for once it has mutated into the genome, will be presented using case studies. These case studies are situations and scenarios that repeated over and over again where the organism with the mutation in question survived or reproduced (or had reproducing offspring) better than those lacking this particular mutation.
Once the benefits from the mutation have been illustrated in one “caveman-scenario”, the same general scenario is to repeat generation after generation in order for the mutation to have made it into our modern genome.
Once we know what the cortex (the learning, flexible part of the brain) is to be requested to do (as is the case in all behaviors except reflexes), we try to engineer a circuit out of brain cells that will be in the hard-wired (genetically determined; non-learning) “old brain”.
The keys to building these circuits in order to see how evolution could have built them, is to aim for simplicity because mutations create simple changes. What is the simplest possible old-brain circuit that can accomplish the urge in the way we experience it? What input (internal or external) triggers the particular old-brain circuit and what output (emotion) does it send into the cortex?
We then validate the theory by seeing if a circuit of that kind could generate the cortical activity we observe within ourselves and others, by seeing what evolutionary success-stories of the past explain the circuit.
Every one of these theories should fit into the model of:
Reproduction (of any shape, be it a DNA-like shape) leads to the three major evolutionary principles:
1) those who survive survive (knowledge of life vs. death).
2) the number of offspring matters (knowledge of the difference between integer numbers).
3) mutation happens between generations (children differ from parents).
The next principle arising from the previous three, is that “power matters”, meaning that if you can make others produce your offspring, you gain benefits in accord with principle 2 (number of offspring matters). A caveman king could have 50% of all women as his sexual partners because he had found a way to suppress the sexual access to women of other males, thus that kind of power-hungry genome continued; by exploiting principle 2.
With principles 1 (survival), 2 (children), 3 (change) and a) power, applying to DNA-like molecules floating in the primordial soup of the early earth, we would expect dinosaurs to soon look as they did. There is a certain inevitability for dinosaurs (fearsome giant lizards) arising if evolution is allowed to go on for long enough; they are a blatant manifestation of power being an evolutionary principle.
Among similar creatures living in over-population and competition, cooperation arising allows the cooperators to out-compete any individualist in fighting. In the context of cooperation, a hierarchy forms because power is an evolutionary principle. Evolution then favors larger and larger cortexes, generation after generation, because strategic planning is the way to gain favors from and surpass superiors, and establish power over inferiors.
The context might be after a meteor strike that kills off all the large dinosaurs, or because the global flesh-to-vegetation ratio kept becoming more and more unbalanced until the vegetation ran out and thus the flesh died, leaving only small creatures just like after a meteor strike. Whatever may be the case on any one planet, it seems like an ever enlarging cortex is the result of groups having formed (like wolf packs) and then hierarchies having formed where the memory-prediction ability of the cortex leads larger cortexes to rise higher in the hierarchy which is synonymous with having more offspring.
In the beginnings of evolution power is an evolutionary principle because it arises from the exploitation of the “number of offspring”-principle (principle 2), and that such exploitation leads some participants in evolution to evolve counter-measures (an immune system) and further elaborate the counter-measure (sexual reproduction leads to more mutation than asexual reproduction; an immune system needs as much mutation as possible to stay up to date). Multicellularity must thus also be an evolutionary principle, because multicellular organisms can have immune systems and sexual reproduction, which protects against parasites´ power (principle 4). Multicellular two-gendered immune-system yielding animals then grow larger and larger because males compete over access to females and we get dinosaurs. Then we get wolf-packs out of the survivors because groups out-compete individualists. Then the cortex grows larger due to power struggles within the flock. That’s why we have humans. Then humans in groups fighting with other groups invent Gods as their military commanders because that causes mutiny and fear in the rivalling clan; then someone pondering the separation-intertwinedness-question invents “just one God” and we get monotheism, but the military tactic of talking to Reality remains. Then science comes along and says that Reality is an existential theory based on three pillars: separation-intertwinedness-opposition, an infinite sizescale and energymasspacetime, and the talking to God, miracles, dogmas, rituals etc. disappears and the world unites into a single scientific world-view.
Anatomy of history
The world-view is a three-part diagram. In the below the three parts are numbered. From part 3 (understanding of the brain) arises a universal morality which refers back to the diagram as a whole (meaning science perpetuates science; other plants find scientific endeavors “universally moral”).
Diagram 1
is the sizescale. Imagine that you are a body in a range of size, meaning that there are smaller sizes than your size and there are bigger sizes than your size. Let a diagram or graph represent size from up to down, for example the larger sizes can be upward and the smaller sizes downward. If our smallest known size (the smallest size we know) is at the very bottom of the sizescale and the largest size that we know is at the very top of the sizescale, then the human is approximately in the middle.
The sizescale is the way to represent all of the nature sciences (like cosmology, quantum physics, biology etc.) so that they all are united. Size is their uniting “principle”.
One thing that should be proved about the sizescale is that it is infinite: that there are infinitely small and infinitely large sizes. The way to prove this is to think about the meaning of Einstein’s E=mc² and Descartes’ ”I think therefore I am” simultaneously. Descartes was able to prove that there is/are thinker and thought: two statements. One: thinker. Two: thought. Therefore there is separation: there are many different “entities” such as thinker, thought and the separation in between them. Einstein’s statement unified energy, mass, space and time. In fact, in E=mc² you find energy equals mass times the/a speed. The speed: a speed is always distance over time, so spacetime (distance-time) is “mentioned” in the E=mc² equation. The c
2
-part involves spacetime. Therefore the E=mc² equation is energymass and spacetime in the same bundle; in the same conglomeration; in the same equation. It means that in reality energymass and spacetime are of course a single Reality. The definition of Reality could be [
that of which all is part
] (“all” being spacetime, energymass and equations themselves).
Because we are observers like Descartes said, Descartes’ kind of observation or separation creates a conflict with the unified nature of reality (the oneness of that of which all is part; E=mc
2
; energymasspacetime). The two are opposites. But how does this prove that sizescale is infinite? If we do observe all we can observe; if we contemplate all that can be contemplated; if we represent by any means “all of it”: meaning every single quantum particle in the entire visible universe – if we do observe everything we could theoretically observe – that is observation and that is part of Descartes’ specialty. Remember: the two are opposites; intertwinedness (the thing we’re trying to observe) is the opposite of separation. Separation comes into conflict with Einstein’s specialty which is unification. It means that observers cannot see Reality; separate entities such as observers cannot see that of which all is part; we as separate “representors” cannot represent “all there is”/”that of which all is part”/energymasspacetime. This makes sense because if you were to try to see that of which all is part you would have to be part of it, you would have to go into that which is in front of you. Therefore
that of which all is part cannot be observed
. This statement is very important because if you can observe the entire known sizescale and reality tells us that our observation is not all there is to Reality; no matter what we observe there is always more because what we observe is not that of which all is part. There is more to “Everything” than whatever be our notion of “everything”. So what could this missing part of the sizescale be? We do observe something (we are not blind; we can represent) and the statement “that of which all is part cannot be observed” is true so there must be a missing part which we cannot observe. The hidden part which we cannot observe is most probably a lengthening of the sizescale: sizes which we don’t know. Also, the sizescale being infinite gives a principle called
infinite justification
meaning that the question “where/what is the first cause?” cannot be answered because there are infinitely many sizes: the first cause always keeps retreating lower in the sizescale, deeper into infinity. That gives a good reason for why there is size in the first place: the sizescale is infinite.
The proof  “try to have Everything/Reality/Energymasspacetime in front of you, and you’d have to jump toward and into it – thus you cannot see it” is an intuitive but weak proof for the infinity of the sizescale – the stronger proofs are a bit more unintuitive (for example one of them deals with the fact that there fundamentally – regardless of observers – is both separation and intertwinedness in the universe, and that conflict between opposites proves, through many paths, that the sizescale is infinite).
Yet another reason which makes an infinite sizescale a possible theory is that we observe the change in size so many times between quantum physics and the visible universe: there are so many little changes in size possible between those two sizes. Each Planck-length adds another increment as we go from smallest to the largest. Why would the law that there is always something larger or smaller by the smallest possible increment be broken at two places in the sizescale: the very largest known and the very smallest known? This principle of size-change is observed so many times that it for empirical reasons may be considered a law of nature (laws of nature can’t be broken). So the limits of our knowledge (meaning the visible universe at the larger end of the known size-range, and a Planck-length to the smaller end) are two breaks in the rule that “all size is justified by more sizes”. That is an empirical proof for that the sizescale is infinite.
The point of proving that the sizescale is infinite is because today’s debaters get stuck on not having a verifiable existential theory, and thus the opponents argue that God is the existential theory. If the sizescale is one pillar in an existential theory we can get rid of God as a creator.
Transition to evolution
The transitioning from the first part of the diagram (the sizescale) to the second part (evolution) is that at one size there was a self-copying shape – in an infinite sizescale there must have been a reproducing shape in some size/sizerange. When there was a self-copying shape three principles came into play:
That there is life and death. Those who survive survive to the next generation and further on in time.
The number of offspring matters. The difference between having one or zero children to having five or six or ten.
There is mutation in each generation. Meaning that parents are different from children. As the generations shift the changes happen.
These three things are true today and they were true as soon as there was a self-copying shape in the sizescale. So first there was a self-copying shape in the sizescale, then (or simultaneously) the rules or evolutionary principles became applicable, then – because these principles govern the first life – soon after the first cells were diving there must have been parasites which reproduce by injecting their RNA into the previously talked about cells. This then could have forced the cells to enact countermeasures such as increasing mutation (exploiting principle number 3: that there is mutation in each generation). By increasing mutation you defend yourself from parasites, and a way to increase mutation is to have sexual reproduction (two genders). So parasites pushed the development of two-genderedness. When you have two genders and one of them spends more effort on the offspring than the other, we get the males to grow bigger in size because they compete with other males over the females – which is a possible reasons for the dinosaurs and also a reason for why the cortex started growing in cavemen: because it was used for planning how to get status/power. And status gives access to reproduction for several reasons: among them, that females want to help their offspring with material resources and it is easier to get material resources from a rich man than from a poor caveman. So women seek out the rich men and this pushes men to want to become the leader of the pack (in wolves, in caveman days, and today). This would’ve been true during millions of years of human brain-development. There is more to say about evolution but let’s transition from this second (evolutionary) diagram to the third one.
In the bottom of the third diagram (the mind-diagram) we have the cortex and the “old-brain” (also known as the limbic system – it is everything in the brain except the cortex). The cortex and the old-brain live in a symbiotic or mutually parasitic relationship: the cortex exists and is alive because it helps the emotions (the old-brain) to, for example, reach power. The cortex is useful for the old-brain and the old-brain is useful for the cortex.
You can view what happens in the brain using these diagrams: for example the old-brain, in its homeostatic circuits, is able to measure the nutrient level in the blood or the temperature and send an emotion to the cortex with the distressing feeling that temperature or nutrient-issue must be corrected. And thus the cortex is prompted or hijacked by the emotion to start planning for (which happens in the left-right-brainhalf diagram) or start executing an existing plan for increasing the temperature. This is an example of the homeostatic circuits, but there are two more categories of circuits recognized by all planets, in the old-brain.
The second category of circuits in the old-brain are the external and social circuits. For example, in a male, when seeing a girl who looks attractive the cortex is prompted to remember that there must be a plan or it starts executing a spontaneous plan or an existing plan in response to what came in through the senses. So a visual que can trigger an emotion and there are rather advanced emotions such as meeting the girl one wants to marry’s parents. That situation occurred so many times in caveman days that we have circuitry for what we want to accomplish or what our emotions push us to do in that situation.
The third category of circuits are the
cortex-idle circuits
. So when there are no significant external stimuli for the external/social circuits nor any particular homeostatic stimuli for the homeostatic circuits, the cortex should be (and basically is) idle. It doesn’t have to worry about the environment nor the internal state. An idle cortex is a useless cortex so evolution made us start plans for how to gather resources (work), how to gain power (climbing the hierarchy), or to think about the past (trying to learn from the past) or trying to predict the future neutrally, but mainly to create plans that increase ones resources or power in the future. So when we are idle we may engage our cortexes in what a caveman’s cortex would’ve been engaged in: planning evolutionarily beneficial patterns of behavior, planning how to gain power, how to work… This ability allowed the cortex to grow so quickly during a short time as seen in the brain-sizes found in the past hundreds of thousands of years in the archeological records. A bigger brain makes better plans, more detailed plans, makes plans faster so in every generation those with the bigger brains created more and better plans and executed these plans better and rose to the top of the hierarchy and the king gets more children.
Now we have looked at the relationship between the old-brain and the cortex (1) and different categories of circuits in the old-brain.
The second (2) part of this two-part mind-diagram looks at the left-right brainhalf situation. Why do we have a visual and a linguistic brainhalf? One way it can be utilized is that both pictures and words activated randomly and therefore are mixed in the visual brainhalf, so imagine in your field of vision there will be random visual concepts mixing, and what you’re looking for are plans to increase your power or your other evolutionary benefits. This system working during the long history of science means that when one man finds a combination of ideas that he can transmit to others, and this ability to pass information from generation to the next of this system of left and right brainhalf proof-checking and marking with a neurochemical those thought-patterns that were realized to be evolutionarily beneficial. Marking them perhaps with dopamine – the memory molecule. So the brain goes through random concepts (it’s also able to learn concepts from the past like in the history of science) and then it marks the true thought-patterns or neurons so that these are more likely to fire the next time. And then this whole idea is combined with other ideas in the visual brainhalf in order to find something that either improves ones world-view (which is of course helpful for an organism in a world) or is a plan leading to evolutionary benefits. Basically the old-brain prompts the cortex to create plans (to gain power etc.) and the way the cortex creates plans is to use pre-existing ideas about the world, adding a random new idea to it and if it is possible to imagine it is marked as proof-checked and remembered.
The third part of this mind-diagram (shown in this picture) is the cortex itself moment-to-moment. Imagine layers one after the other, and in each layer there are many choices. If you have learned about the reticular activation system you can imagine that there is a layer and on this layer is represented the different stimuli in the environment: there might be a cat and a dog and a computer and a car and maybe a hostile-looking man, and the reticular activation system puts focus on or chooses (makes a choice) to focus on “threatening man”. This reticular activation system works on the most initial levels of the cortex like being able to recognize simple shapes like lines, but the reticular activation system also works at the very highest levels of the cortex. So in your everyday decision-making process you end up in situations where you have many different options and imagine one layer choosing from the other layer (options being in the other layer). And from having chosen that, you can imagine the line or energy-flow goes to those neurons, to those options, and then your cortex predicts a new set of options. And again you try to logically look at all the options and you’ll probably find that sometimes there are emotions trying to make the choice, so one of the options might be bigger or highlighted because an emotion sees that as instant gratification or an emotion chose it.
In each jump from layer to layer (moment to moment) the function of the left-right upper-lower brainhalf diagrams is utilized; when making a choice we both use the old-brain biasing our choices, and the choices are based on proof-checked plans made in the left-right-brainhalf-system. Only once both upper-lower (old-brain) and left-right-brainhalf (planning/proof-checking) have done their job do we get from one layer (moment) to the next moment along the energy-flow-line.
So life is going from layer to layer, pausing at some layer, considering all the options in vast detail; the old-brain sending in some noise into the system by trying to push us toward certain choices. And I guess in some people’s lives the self-interest and the plans align very well so they might only in very extraordinary situations feel the mismatch between what one ought to do and what one feels like doing. That choice-making reticular activation system-based diagram of layers and energy-flows going through different choices is an anatomically accurate description because the cortex is a layered structure with emotions involved. But it is also on a plainly theoretical level a complete explanation of moment-to-moment life.
So the top diagram (diagram 1) plus the two other diagrams (diagram 2) is the brain. In the bottom diagram there are two diagrams: upper and lower brain meaning the cortex and the old-brain, and there is the left and right brainhalf proof-checking mechanism. Those two diagrams (diagram 2) have to be imagined together using the same mental tactic as in quantum physics when a wave and particle should be imagined as the same. And it does not end there: you must add the last part of the diagram: the cortex/decision-making process (diagram 1) to it all. All the described mind-diagrams together explain everyday actions/emotions/behavior. It is many such brains together which create history – science being the certain morality in history which all cortexes will learn one day.
The connection between this mind-part of the diagram and history-part of the diagram is that all the circuits (the emotions, homeostatic circuits, etc.) got into the brain because of history. We can look at where among the evolutionary principles (the triangle-shaped sub-diagram in the main diagram) a certain feature arose. This can both be done using archeological studies and also by moving very slowly from the very first evolutionary principles, through reproduction, through dinosaurs, through the cortex first being a way to do simple environmental manipulation, then becoming the complex, culturally modified decision-making process that it is today. And in the process we understand why written history begins with kingdoms, why men had organized as kings and why kings had so many concubines and wives while the slave has none. And also why men still strive for power. We can understand why military tactics begged for the invention of general-type Gods, and then reasoning about separation-intertwinedness led to the invention of monotheism.
The old-brain circuits arose in evolution before the cortical circuits and are hard-wired in our genome. Then cultural (cortical) circuits such as the circuits of democracy arose in response to there being kingdoms. Democracy is thus a counter-reaction to the evolutionarily created/determined social order called kingdoms.
Summary:
The provably infinite sizescale contains a size where reproduction happens. Step after step the evolutionary principles unfold and do so in a somewhat predictable (probabilistic) pattern – for example you might have predicted that the availability of university level lectures from all fields of science on the internet would create a world-view which everyone agrees on. The more one uses the three diagrams in the brain/mind the more one can categorize different behavioral phenomena one sees within the picture of the diagram i.e. see a diagram of each and every behavior which involves anatomy (circuits) and evolutionary history (a story of why such a trait evolved).
This image is an attempt to show all of science. Imagine how galaxies were 10 billion years ago in the upper left part of the sizescale (1), imagine how galaxies will be 10 billion years from now in the upper right part of the sizescale (large-future). Imagine evolution (2) beginning somewhat after the Big Bang and initially only having few principles applicable to it, later life became more complex (more principles and thus the triangle shape). Imagine yourself (3) as an emotionally influenced decision-making process that from moment to moment makes choices (the mind-diagrams). Imagine that new ideas’ validity is (mainly) predicted/determined by the visualization method in the left-right-brainhalf proof-checking mechanism and all of this, as a new idea, can be validated even though it is unintuitive.
Worth noting is that the current scientific problems are solved by this diagram: why did the Big Bang happen? Look at the three-pillar existential theory that begins from “a priori” (assuming nothing). An infinite sizescale explains why there is size. Energymass in spacetime (“one in zero”) – or rather energymass and spacetime intertwined as in E=mc² – explains why there is energymass/existence: it all exist in or together with Nothing. Imagine there being only Nothing in which the laws of nature apply – since E=mc² is a law of nature energymass gets mentioned even in nothingness. It would be absurd for the universe/Nothingness to “mention” energymass (i.e. to have the law E=mc²) without there being energymass. This would’ve been true in the smallest spaces, hence the Big Bang was as dense as can be (and dense hot things split apart in infinite space). This is the rationale behind the existential theory they use on other planets.
The dark matter and dark energy problems arise from confusing one layer of the sizescale with another. The solar system works differently than a galaxy – we must adapt our equations so that we don’t use the same equations for a solar-system sized object as well as for a galaxy-sized object. This solves the dark-matter problem (galaxies not behaving like our equations predict). It should be obvious that we need different equations for different sizes – just look at how different the human size is from quantum physics and how different equations we need for biology and quantum physics. The dark-energy problem is the same: “why does the entire visible universe behave differently than say a galaxy-sized region?” – of course it does, it is in a different layer in an infinite sizescale where every size is different from every other size. It is the nature of the sizescale to have everything (even gravity) change as a function of change in size.
The sizescale
The coordinate system means assigning numerical values to different points in space; using the coordinate system we can visually show the speed of a car (Y-axis) at many different times (X-axis) in a single image. Just like speed, size is a continuum ranging between small and large. The sizescale-concept means representing size along a distance in an analogous way.
The visible universe is the largest known as it consists of the largest number of cubic meters and is hence shown in a layer at the top of the drawn sizescale. A quark is among the smallest known things as it occupies the smallest fraction of a cubic meter.
The difference between the sizescale and the sizescale-concept
This book will prove that there are more sizes than the knowable ones; that there is more to the sizescale than the knowable sizescale; that the range of sizes continues beyond the limits of knowledge. Hence there is the need to have three distinct concepts: one for referring to the entire reality however many sizes it may consist of, another for referring to the knowable reality There is a difference between “the sizescale” and “the sizescale-concept”. The sizescale is the actual range in sizes which I will argue consists of infinitely small and infinitely large sizes. It is a synonym for Reality. The sizescale-concept on the other hand is the human endeavor of science; any concept is a mind-thing and is finite. The difference between the two is elicited by the question: which one is in the mind and which cannot be?
The definition of a layer
Because the boundary between any size and slightly larger or smaller is infinitely small, the sizescale is continuous. So is speed and yet a car’s speedometer has distinct numbers written on it; distance is continuous yet we arbitrarily and for our own convenience think about distance as distinct places/numbers. For convenience sake we choose distinct sizes from the sizescale. Because a stack of layers becomes a continuous structure, I will call each size which acts as a distinct part of the sizescale a “layer”.
The shape of a layer is arbitrary but what does matter is the size shown as or in the layer i.e. does the layer contain a galaxy or a quark?
Space has been proven to be infinite and because a size is a space and a layer is a size, each layer is defined as infinite 3-dimensional space. We cannot imagine nor see this but we can talk about it in language which is not very different compared to talking but being unable to see the infinite decimals of anything which’s accuracy we know to be infinite. Language penetrates where vision cannot.
Knowing this layer-aspect of the sizescale is something they ponder on other planets too; the sizescale is our tool and if we are to imitate our alien brethren we ought to read/write about specifics of the sizescale such as what we call “taking a piece of a continuous range, making it 3-dimensional space, seeing it as a finite object/space”.
The relationship between the layers
If someone asks: “why do molecules exist i.e. what justifies a molecule?” the answer is: “the atom” (and whatever is larger than a molecule). Without the atom there could not be a molecule just as there could not be a beach without the existence of grains of sand. The smaller justifies the larger. The opposite must also be true: the smaller needs the large to exist in; without the larger the smaller could not be justified.
“Size changes and justification go hand in hand”
The relationship between the layers of the sizescale is “justification” and “change in size (size variability)”.
Time in the sizescale
There are two possible methods of presenting time in the sizescale-concept:
Time can be shown as we see it in everyday life; each layer in the sizescale is like a TV-screen playing a movie. As a galaxy rotates in one layer, a human does something in another and molecules vibrate in yet another.
Time can be shown like in a timeline. In Descartes’ coordinate system points in space represent moments in time.
The observer of the sizescale
The observer (you) is one of the elements of the sizescale-concept. When you see the sizescale like in the above picture the observer is detached from the sizescale; there is space between the observer and the sizescale.
If the sizescale is counted as one “thing”, there are three “things” to notice in the sizescale-concept: the sizescale itself (the observed), the observer (you) and the spacetime between the observer and the observed. These three parts of the sizescale-concept are the “holy trinity” which is always present when the sizescale-concept is observed.
Does the observer watching the sizescale have a size? If every size is seen maybe the observer is of every size?
The standards
When Descartes invented the coordinate system he had to decide on a standard regarding which direction shall be called “negative” and which “positive”. He chose right and up as positive (for example the coordinate (2,1) is two units to the right and one unit upward).
As the inventor of the sizescale-concept I had to choose a few standards for the concept. Like with any standard we simply agree along which direction to represent what.
For example, what do we represent “upward” in the sizescale-concept? It can either be:
time (moments justify one another)
future or
past
or
size (sizes justify one another)
small or
large
here, I chose to assign upward the meaning of increase in size and downward decrease in size. The reason for deciding on this standard is because we need to make the standard as universal as possible. We discovered the large which we represent upwards by looking upwards (telescopes to the sky) and discovered the small by looking downward (you seldom see a person use a microscope with his gaze pointing upwards). Hence large is represented upward and small downward. It is thus not “my” standard but I base it off of the same rationale other planets would use for choosing their standard; this “I’ll do like other planets do”-method is the same we use to derive morality from the diagram/world-view.
If I choose to represent time in the timeline manner I assign left the meaning of past and right the meaning of future. This is based on the western way of reading and writing.
To summarize: vertical represents size and horizontal time.
Things to do with the sizescale
So far I have described what the sizescale-concept is, now it is time for how the sizescale-concept works.
There are the following 4 mental processes which can be performed on the sizescale-concept:
movement in space,
rotating a layer or layers,
flow in the sizescale,
give the layers names.
Movement shows different spaces
A layer shows a space of a certain size and if the observer moves the space shown in the observer’s field of view is from a different location. As there is relative motion between observer and object, different objects appear in the field of view i.e. in the layer.
Consider this example: if you move one centimeter the picture at the top of the sizescale (perhaps showing a galaxy) does not change much – the change is a difference too small to detect by a human seeing an entire galaxy. You moved a distance of 0.00000000000…1 times the diameter of the galaxy. On the other hand if you watch the lower layers of the sizescale (for example showing human cells) and move the same distance (one centimeter) you will have moved to a different cell and have a very different view.
Movement applied to the entire sizescale (the movement of one centimeter applied to each layer) causes more apparent movement the further down the sizescale you look.
Movement is one of the tasks that can be done on the sizescale-concept.
Rotating the sizescale applies the same rotation to every layer
Let us say you are looking at a galaxy from a particular direction. If you rotate the galaxy 180 degrees or if you move to the other side of the galaxy and rotate yourself 180 degrees, you’ll see another side of the same galaxy. If you rotate the entire sizescale 180 degrees the above would happen in the layer showing the galaxy and the same change would be applied to every layer – for example you would see a molecule from a changed direction. The same change in direction of view is applied to every layer if the sizescale is rotated.
Rotating the sizescale applies the same rotation to every layer.
Imagine replacing a skateboard with a sizescale – make it spin and rotate and watch the visions in each layer change.
“Flow” in the sizescale
I believe most people who learn about the objects of the different sizes automatically “flow” in the sizescale meaning they “slide” from one size to another. This can be accomplished by making the observer (you) smaller and larger i.e. asking “what would I see if I would shrink or be larger?” The most basic principle of education is to learn to flow from the largest known to the smallest known i.e. knowing something from each layer so that one’s knowledge builds a continuous structure (the sizescale).
Many people can express their knowledge of nature by telling you how many atoms there are in a cell, how large a cell is compared to an organ, how many people there are on earth, how far away earth is from the sun, compare this distance to the distance between stars, etc. By small increments you can “build your way up” from atoms to galaxies. The story can become quite long and you get into a mental state of “flow”. Hence I call such change in size “flowing” in the sizescale.
Flowing means spontaneously changing size.
“Flowing” is a mental process you can do with the sizescale-concept.
Give the layers names
Language is about making communication easier. Let us therefore give numerical names to the different layers.
We could call the size of a quark layer 1 or 0, an atom layer 2, a protein layer 3, a cell layer 4, a human layer 5, the planet layer 6, the solar system layer 7, the galaxy layer 8, the large scale structure layer 9, the visible universe layer 10.
The sizescale is continuous and any convention of giving sizes numerical names is arbitrary.
10 different pictures (10 layers) is what the human brain can quite easily imagine, and it – though being limited and a lite-version of the entire corpus of the sizescale – gives quite a good and continuous picture of Science.
Summary
The sizescale-concept is a straight forward, easy to grasp concept. Google Maps utilizes the concept in their software: you can move in space and change the size shown in the field of vision. The sizescale-concept had to be put on paper at some time in human history and as far as I know it hasn’t been done in the past, hence I put the sizescale-concept on paper.
Now I have given the full concept of the sizescale: the definition of a layer, the relationship between the layers, the ways to represent time and noted the observer (you). I have declared the necessary standards. I’ve given the toolkit for what can be done with the sizescale.
Below is the most complete picture possible of all of science (time is represented in the timeline-manner). It could be called “the wall-sizescale”.
If you add the evolutionary triangle to the middle of the above picture, and add the mind-diagrams to it all – then you’ve got the same world-view that they have on other planets.
The grey picture above is the square (upper-left = large-past) shown in this picture (which includes the mind-diagrams and the evolutionary triangle as arising from the sizescale).
An infinite sizescale
The following picture is what it means for the sizescale to be infinite:
The known sizescale ranges from cosmology to quantum physics. There are limits of knowledge (the floor and roof of knowledge) i.e. we do not know infinitely large nor infinitely small sizes.
The theory of an infinite sizescale (which is proven by “observing not all of Reality but indeed contemplating everything that can be contemplated (the known sizescale)) proposes that the pattern of justification (the relationship between layers) continues endlessly i.e. there is something infinitely much larger than the largest known and there is something infinitely much smaller than the smallest known.
If the sizescale is infinite then we must distinguish between two concepts:
“The knowable sizescale” which exists between the largest that can be known and the smallest that can be known. The knowable sizescale is every size between the limits of knowledge (i.e. quantum physics and the visible universe). Because the standard is to represent the large toward the upper parts of the sizescale, we could call the largest known “the roof of knowledge”. A roof is what ends a wall (the size-time-diagram is a square like a wall is). By the same token we can call the smallest known “the floor of knowledge”.
The second concept is “the (entire) sizescale” which I argue is infinite.
The knowable sizescale is part of the (entire) sizescale.
The existential theory based on an infinite sizescale
That the sizescale is infinite (toward the infinitely small and infinitely large) means that the pattern of justification (the relationship between the layers) continues beyond the known sizescale; the pattern of justification appears infinitely many times. The “layer x makes sense of layer y and vice versa” relationship continuous throughout the infinite sizescale.
A way of seeing this is to zoom out of the entire known sizescale, making the vertical size-axis part of an infinitely long sizescale. Because the sizescale is a representation along a space (up-down-direction represents size), you can imagine a finite length of space (representing the finite knowable sizescale) and then recognize that the length of space is but part of an infinitely long distance (meaning the sizescale is infinite).
This is an essential part of an existential theory; a theory that describes and explains why we (and the known sizescale that we are part of) are here; why they exist. The reason is simple: everything must be justified. Infinite justification; an infinite sizescale is a possible justification for human existence. If every reason why – which always is a size – has more justification then the sizescale is infinite.
Just like computers can create complex geometric shapes out of just a few lines of programming rules (fractals), let’s assume reality’s fundamental rule states that anything and everything that is part of this rational reality must make sense i.e. be justified. Assuming this rule of justification and noticing how each layer of the known sizescale justifies and extends the rule further leads to a rational reason for why there is a sizescale in the first place.
The question is “why the known sizescale?” and the answer is infinite justification. If the pattern of justification is infinite then there is no unjustified part of the sizescale whatsoever.
What justifies an atom? Quantum physicists study the answer. Quantum physics is just another field of science; it has a lot in common with every other field of science/layer of the sizescale, namely that there are masses which’s existence beg an explanation and as with any other layer the explanation comes from lower and higher layers in the sizescale.
If the sizescale would be infinite it would not contradict any known facts of science i.e. it would make sense if the case was that the sizescale is infinite; it is a rather beautiful theory. “The unthinkable thought”-concept proves that the sizescale is infinite. If the sizescale is assumed to be infinite it would solve questions that are unsolved if the sizescale is not assumed to be infinite, such as: “what is the scientific justification for why there is the sizescale?”, “what is the ‘edge’ of space – is space infinite?” and “is there something smaller than a quark?”
Philosophical reasons for the sizescale
One major objective in science and philosophy is to reach conclusions by beginning with known facts; logic can lead you far astray if you begin with the wrong assumptions, but more importantly for the topic at hand we don’t want the sizescale to be a tree without roots – what is its foundation? How do we reach the sizescale-concept by beginning with the most fundamental truths?
I think and I exist
Descartes was a philosopher in the 1600s, he was looking for certain truth (among the many different beliefs people had). He went about this by throwing all knowledge on the trash-heap of uncertain knowledge and whatever remained after all uncertain knowledge had been rejected must be certain knowledge. He imagined an almighty demon whose aim was to fool him in everything that he could possibly be fooled in. If any knowledge remained (if the demon couldn’t fool him about some knowledge) then that knowledge must be certain knowledge.
Descartes even doubted the existence of the world because it could be an illusion cast upon him by the demon (like in the movie The Matrix). Perhaps his consciousness is a brain in a jar with cables attached to it feeding it electrical signals making it falsely believe for example that  he has the rest of a body.
What knowledge remained and hence was certain after all his knowledge had been piled on the trash heap of knowledge? Descartes realized that if he were to be fooled, being fooled requires someone who is being fooled i.e. there must be an I for that I to be fooled. There is a self because the demon cannot fool someone if there is not someone to fool. “I exist” or “the I/self exists” his mind hence said as certain knowledge.
What other knowledge escaped the trash-heap and is certain knowledge? If I were being fooled in everything that I could be fooled in – being fooled is thinking. Hence I know that thought exists because thought is the very phenomenon and a necessity of being fooled. Descartes might have said: “if the demon was making me incorrectly
think
that…”, hence
thought
exists.
Descartes – and anyone following his reasoning – can claim two facts to be certain truth: “I think” and “I exist”. The thinker and the thought exist.
How do we move forward from the starting position that Descartes found for us? What immediately follows from the two facts?
We begin with Descartes’ two-fact starting position and notice the separation between the thinker and the thought. Reality lets us be able to claim both “I think” and “I exist”. There was not just one claim to be made; Descartes made two. This means separation between thinker and thought. Separation means distance i.e. space which means there can be different-sized objects. Hence size is variable. Hence we can take visions showing each size and stack them into a layered structure (the sizescale). Notice here how in Descartes’ reasoning there is no minimum nor maximum limit in size.
We could also look at the separation Descartes found for us and ask what its opposite is? “Intertwinedness”, “Oneness”, “that of which all is part”, “Reality” we might call it – but we cannot see it because as observers we are in Descartes realm. This leads to another synonym for it: “the unthinkable thought” because we are dealing with thought, the thing we are referring to (Reality) is unthinkable and the thing we are referring to is one (that of which all is part). If we cannot see all of Reality (but we can represent all we can represent) then there is more to the sizescale than the knowable sizescale.
Descartes
’
thoughts so easily lead to the sizescale; this is the sizescale
’
s philosophical foundation – the way to reach it by beginning with certain truth.
The ability to draw graphs
We have the ability to draw a graph in which speed is represented as a distance. For example the below graph could mean that a car was driving at 60 km/h for a while, then 20 km/h for a while and then 40 km/h for a while.
Because of this inherent ability to draw representations in which speed is represented as a distance we have the ability to draw a representation in which size is represented along a distance as a layered structure (the sizescale).
I find it fascinating that Descartes realized both “the thinker and the thought” (and the separation that leads to different sizes / the unthinkable thought) and the seemingly totally unrelated mathematical conceptual tool of assigning points in space numerical values i.e. representing numbers along an axis like size can be represented along an axis (the sizescale), which we call the coordinate system i.e. Cartesian coordinates.
The sizescale connects Descartes’ two inventions: the graph and “I think therefore I am” by adding the concept “the sizescale” and proving that the sizescale is infinite (which leads us to an existential theory).
Evidence for an infinite sizescale
There are several evidences that point toward that the sizescale is infinite. By evidence I mean one like on a crime scene: if you find a murderer in the act of murdering you have definitive proof (like the unthinkable thought or Descartes’ certain truth so swiftly leading to a sizescale and proposes no finiteness to it), but if you only find his fingerprints on the gun you have evidence. The following three evidences are not definitive proof but they are evidence for that the sizescale is infinite.
Limits of knowledge break a trend
How many times can the smallest known size be multiplied to reach the largest known size? An enormous number of times! The relationship between the layers is “justification” (atoms justify molecules). You could ask: “did the previous size justify the next size?” and the answer would be “yes” as many times as there are changes in size. The “pattern of justification” i.e. relationship between the layers i.e. “there is always something smaller/larger to justify any given size” is a law of nature because it is observed so consistently.
There are only two sizes at which the pattern of justification is broken: the very largest known and the very smallest known.
There are only two theories regarding this:
Theory A: is that the trend of justification is broken meaning the visible universe is not justified (by something larger) and quantum physics is not justified (by something smaller) unlike every other size is justified. This means the roof of knowledge and floor of knowledge are unique compared to every other size and exceptions to the law of nature that everything must be justified by larger and smaller. This would break with Einstein’s theory of relativity which claims that no point in space (nor any one size) is “absolute”.
Theory B: is that the trend continues outside our knowledge as a continuation of the sizescale beyond the known sizescale. If the sizescale is infinite then the law of nature that everything is justified by smaller and larger is true without exceptions.
The evidence and a pointer toward that the second theory is true is that the pattern of justification is observed so many times. When meditating on the vast number of sizes and the relationship between them (i.e. justification) it
feels
to me that the pattern of justification is an unbreakable law of nature. The limits of knowledge i.e. roof and floor of knowledge are limits of knowledge and not limits of justification.
Though not proof I consider this evidence for that there is more to the sizescale than the knowable sizescale i.e. the pattern of justification continues beyond the known sizescale, and the sizescale is infinite.
Another piece of evidence: a center of the sizescale
Another evidence for an infinite sizescale is that we find ourselves (the human size) approximately in the center of the known sizescale: almost exactly as large compared to the smallest known as we are small compared to the largest known. We are medium sized; the eyes are medium sized observers.
In cosmology, according to relativity, we can consider any location in space the center i.e. there is no center. Perhaps we can consider any size the center of the sizescale i.e. there is no center of the sizescale (hence the sizescale is infinite).
The current diameter of the visible universe is currently approximately 93 billion light-years or 8,79 • 10
26
meters. The currently smallest thought about length in quantum physics is 1.62 •10
-35
meters.
The quantum Planck-length divided by X equals X divided by 93 billion light-years.
X
2
= Planck-length • (8,79 • 10
26
meters).
X = 1.19 • 10
-4
meters i.e. approximately
0.12 millimeters.
The center of the sizescale (the medium size) is 0.12 millimeters. 0.12 millimeters is as small compared to the largest known as it is large compared to the smallest know.
This means that if you hold your thumb and index finger 1 millimeter apart, a little more than a tenth of the distance is the center of the known sizescale. For there to be a “middle of justification; middle of size” does not
feel
right.
Quantum physics is the floor of knowledge and has been even when humans did not exist (for example 13 billion years ago). If there had been humans 13 billion years ago with a particle accelerator they would have discovered quarks. But 13 billion years ago the visible universe was much smaller compared to its size today. This means that in the past the center of the sizescale must have been a smaller size compared to what it is today i.e. the middle of the sizescale was lower in the sizescale in the past. As the visible universe grows the center of the sizescale moves upward in the sizescale. If we assume there is a center in the sizescale (which I have disproven) then that center keeps drifting upwards sizewise as the universe expands.
Calculus
Isaac Newton lived in England and Leibnitz lived in France, both in the 1600s. Both claimed to be the first inventor of the mathematical concept “calculus”. Calculus is a category containing two concepts:
The derivative
The derivative can be done by choosing a point in the Cartesian coordinate system and infinitely near it choosing another point – infinitely near means the points are always closing in on one another. Look at the distance in between them – doing the derivative is zooming in (making the observer size smaller to see the ever shrinking distance between the two points). This is going lower in the sizescale.
The integral.
The integral is the flipside of the same coin: adding infinitely many pieces to make a whole hence zooming out i.e. making the observer size larger. This is going upward in the sizescale.
In mathematics the derivative/integral can be done infinitely many times meaning in calculus there are infinitely large and small sizes. Is the sizescale infinite like in mathematics? Fractals make the same point: infinity exists in the world of mathematics and thus should not be suspicious when applied to the sizescale.
Though not proof for that the sizescale is infinite I consider this evidence which relies on that you can have infinitely large (1000000…) and infinitely small (0.00000…1) numbers.
Summary
I have found three evidences – not proofs – that there is more to the sizescale than the knowable sizescale.
The first evidence was: the limits of knowledge (the largest known and the smallest known) break a trend/law of nature and that shouldn’t be broken because it’s empirically shown to be true over and over again.
The second evidence was: if the sizescale is finite then there is a center of the sizescale. Einstein’s theory of relativity allows no centers to space nor space’s derivative: size.
The third evidence was that mathematics describe infinity.
Do the three evidences in combination plus the proofs convince of that the sizescale is infinite? If so, we have an existential theory and we have a certain-logic-foundation-based educational path to a full world-view.
Proof that there is more to the sizescale than the knowable sizescale
Below are the proofs – the last word on the issue – for that the sizescale is infinite.
Reality is one
You have never heard anyone say: “reality is 0.5 i.e. reality is half” or “there are three realities”; Reality – defined as encompassing all – is one. The point I’m trying to make is so obvious that it might be elusive because of the very act of putting it in words. Reality is one.
What directly follows from the singular nature of reality is that it cannot be observed; if something by definition is one and hence lacks separation then a separate entity such as an observer which is required for observation cannot observe Reality and then Reality cannot be observed. An observer is a part and reality is partless. The opposition between Descartes and Einstein, separation and intertwinedness, “I think and I am, etc.” and “energymasspacetime”  – whatever you call it, the juxtaposition of the two opposites means that Reality is partless and cannot be seen.
In such a state of reality does it make sense for reality to have a maximum or minimum size limit? There is no everyday object that lacks maximum and minimum size and therefore metaphors and analogies are useless. It is simply in the nature of a unified, one, intertwined, all-encompassing “solid without parts” to not be subject to the magic ruler measuring the smallest or largest distance.
In a thought experiment you can shrink or be enlarged infinitely many times in the non-observable “thing” called Reality.
Reaching a limit in this unthinkable energymasspacetime feels like reaching a maximum numerical value which is impossible: number is infinite.
Does it even make sense to have a separate phenomenon such as “size” in the above described unobservable partlessness i.e. one Reality? In the realm of separation there are sizes, but in separation’s opposite realm there are no distinctions and thus no maximum nor minimum size – even the very concept of size as separate from something else becomes dubious.
That of which all is part cannot be observed
The situation can be simplified if you imagine a square that is made of four parts: the square represents the visible universe and the four parts are all its parts (every quantum-physical particle-wave). Then add the fact that you are part of the whole (you are a part). This philosophical fact makes observing reality from the (non-existent) “outside” impossible. The largest known – that of which all known is part – is the exception to the rule which states that if we can view it from within it we can view it from its outside too. Because of that, that of which all is part cannot be observed.
You can not detach yourself from energymasspacetime. You cannot have all of reality – that of which all is part – in front of you. You cannot see reality like you would any other object because you are part of it.
The Cartesian approach to this is the mind’s ability to say “I exist” and “I think” and the “holy trinity” in every observation, namely 1) the observer (thinker), 2) the object (thought) and 3) the separation between the two.
If you ever find yourself attempting to imagine reality “from outside” here’s a checklist for catching incorrect imaginations:
Ask if there is space between you (the observer) and the observed. If there is, know that all space is part of energymasspacetime.
Ask if there is an observer in the imagination. If there is (every observation has an observer), know that all observers are part of reality.
Any “observation of Reality” falling into cases a) or b) are false imaginations of that which we are trying to imagine, hence “that of which all is part cannot be observed” is a true statement, we get the concept “the unthinkable thought” as a synonym for Reality, and there is more to the sizescale than the knowable sizescale (there is more to Reality than can be contemplated).
We can observe something and this does not constitute an observation of that of which all is part.
Summary
Our relationship to Reality is like that of atoms orbiting a black hole: our whole existence is governed by it but we cannot see it. If we become it we can nevertheless not observe.
The thing in common about all proofs for that the sizescale is infinite / Reality cannot be seen is that they both require you to think about Reality as unthinkable. This is difficult for anyone to do – in history, people feared and refused to implement the concept of zero because they could not see it. What might help you in contemplating these sizescale-related ideas is the word “unthinkable”. Thinking can be defined as imagining and/or using language; we have two brain halves and one of them deals with imaginations and creativity and the other deals with language and reasoning. “Unthinkable” means that reality can be in neither brain half; reality cannot be captured as a thought.
The word “unthinkable” is meant as an adjective – it describes Reality. Hence the synonym we are creating for the word “Reality” thus far lacks a noun; we need to refer to something and not just have an adjective. There is after all something to be referred to: reality; the one, single, partless unobservable; the vast which lets us know we both can (in a limited sense) and cannot observe it.
The point of all this is to find a synonym for Reality: a synonym which relies on already existing language like in the following example: let’s say all linguists were wiped off of the face of the earth and hence we lacked words like “consonants” and “vowels”. We’d have to reinvent them. The positive side would be that we get a new chance and hence we can be smart about which combination of syllables we choose to communicate “the obstruction of airflow” and “the free flow of air” respectively. Those with a fascinations for cosmology – the enormous number of other planets that must have life – or simply those who believe in life elsewhere but earth might want to combine already existing words to build a linguistic structure which’s “shape” – not “content” – is identical to that in the minds of inhabitants of other planets.  If we decide to call what today is called “vowels” “the free flow of air” instead or some abbreviation of that we would be able to do something that is thought about on other planets; if we want to make our vocabulary as universal as possible we follow the above methodology. We use combinations of existing words as new words because it reminds us of the meaning of the word. This of often done in Latin/Greek where for example “republic” comes from “res” (thing) and “publicus” (public) which means “public thing”. I don’t suggest we force the words “vowel” and “consonant” out of existence because its too trivial of a change, but if we did we’d mimic other planets (whom chose their vocabulary to be as universal as possible).
When coming up with a synonym for Reality I decided – because my disposition toward is finding universal truths – that the synonym for reality ought to be “the unthinkable, thought!”
Here’s why: “The unthinkable…” refers to the in common feature in the all of the proofs: that neither brain-half can contain reality. “…, thought!” refers to where we find ourselves after thinking about reality in the above way, namely the realm of mind: noticing that all there is in realm of mind is the realm of mind itself. The realm of mind is where we always find ourselves when contemplating the thoughts presented in this book. To make thinking about this stuff easier I use the concept “the unthinkable thought” as a synonym for Reality; it’s a descriptive phrase/word/sequence-of-words referring to Reality which needs a descriptive referral-word because our brain anatomy is so unused to the unthinkable.
It is a scientific word; it has universal properties; it reminds a forgetful, lazy and imperfect mind of what it ought to think about; “how it ought to (not) imagine Reality”.
Descartes said “I think” and “I am”. If something is unthinkable there must be something for which/whom it is unthinkable; this must be the realm of mind. We can – as a mind – we have the ability to categorize the thinker and the thought into a category. Both/all Descartes’ separate discovered entities can be grouped under the heading “realm of mind”. Like pictures on a computer can be dragged into a folder the two concepts “thinker and thought” can be contained in the realm of mind. The realm of mind-category contains the thinker and the thought.
The next definition is that all there is in the realm of mind is realm of mind. Now “realm of mind” is defined as “the thinker and the thought and all else there is in this category”. To simplify I will abbreviate “realm of mind” into “ROM”. All there is in ROM is ROM; all there is in the category is the category. Hence Descartes’ “I think and I exist” is ROM observing ROM’s existence – the thinker observing thought’s existence or vice versa. Observation is an act performed by/in/as ROM and is ROM. ROM observing rom hence is ROM roming ROM: all there is in ROM is ROM.
The existential theory continues
E=mc
2
Energymass basics: first – in the mind of humans – there were energy and mass as separate phenomena. It takes one “joule” (unit) of energy to lift an apple one meter upward and this quantity can be converted into light, heat. Then Einstein unified energy and mass and the proofs for that they are indeed intertwined and the same are numerous, not the least potent being that we make mass into energy in our nuclear power plant technology. Hence many people talk about “massenergy” or “energymass”.
Spacetime basics: first – in the mind of humans – space (distance measured by rulers) and time (wristwatches) were thought of as separate phenomena. Edwin Hubble’s discovery of red-shift in the light coming from objects travelling away from us was important for unifying space with time. Red-shift is the quantum physical phenomenon of (wave-description:) the photon’s wavelength getting longer; (particle description:) the particle energy getting lower; (everyday description:) light gets redder when emitted from objects retreating from us. When light is red-shifted the time during which events seen as that light happen gets their duration extended. Though the phenomenon is too subtle to be seen in everyday life, it means that if you and your friend have synchronized wristwatches and he is running away from you as you look at his wristwatch, seconds occur slower for him than on your watch. He of course can think of you as becoming further away from him and hence we would (from his point of view) say that your time is slow. Time is relative (Einstein’s theory of relativity).
If that example takes more studying to fully believe there is a simpler way of proving that space and time are “spacetime”: mass occupies space hence space is necessary for there to be mass. Energy occurs through space during time. If we assume energy and mass are unified (into energymass) then spacetime is required for there to be energymass. Energymass involves spacetime. This justifies the word “spacetime”.
Now we have the words “energymass” and “spacetime”. They can be found unified in the equation E=mc2.
At this point I would like to digress to telling about the history of science: Einstein lived not so long ago and he was the one to unify energy and mass into energymass and space and time into spacetime. He died while searching for a “unified field theory” that would unify electromagnetism, gravity etc. into a single force.
To unify, if for no better reason than to continue the thousand year trend of unifying energy, mass, space and time, would be to unify energymass with spacetime.
The E=m-part of the equation is an abbreviation and literally means “energy equals mass”. The c
2
-part is a little bit different: in it space and time are a speed (more specifically the speed of light). A speed is of course a distance (space) during time – spacetime! E=mc2 can be thought of a sentence in which energymass is mentioned before spacetime (in mathematics equations can of course be modified without the equation becoming untrue, hence all there is to notice is that energymass is unified with spacetime: they are in the same equation).
We have been thinking about this before in this book: “reality is one”. Intertwining has the end result of there being one.
How does this add to the existential theory? By understanding the contrast between energymass and spacetime we get an “existence in non-existence”-theory instead of simply an existence/existential theory.
We are so focused on the sizescale of energymass that we tend to not acknowledge that each layer of the energymass sizescale has a corresponding layer in the spacetime sizescale; if we did acknowledge the importance of spacetime we would have a possible candidate for the other element (the first element being infinite justification between the layers of the sizescale) for the existential theory: existence can be allowed in nothing/non-existence.
A metaphor for this is energymass and spacetime being children frog-leaping over each other’s backs: whenever one is in front the other appears in front. This process occurs infinitely fast or without time; energymass and spacetime co-exist.
A thought experiment that gets close to the core of this idea explains how this reality started (the reason for the big bang): let’s assume there is no world; no energymass sizescale; no existence. Then there would be nothing; nothing is a synonym for spacetime (empty spacetime without objects). What must be true about this empty nothing? Can there be nonsense about it; can there be illogical truths in it; can one be three, a triangle have 24 angles, one size be another, one moment in time be 75 other completely unrelated ones…? Can E=mc
512
+0.4m-5 (instead of E=mc
2
)? Think about what it means for E=mc2 to be true in the above mentioned framework: energymass is “mentioned”. Where is it “mentioned”? In the tiniest spaces (the infinitely tiny) because E=mc
2
is true everywhere. Hence the big bang 13.7 billion years ago began as as dense as can be known. When is E=mc2 mentioned? As soon as there was complete emptiness in which the laws of nature (no-nonsense rules) apply. In this manner – by “mentioning” energymass – Nothing summons existence.
Extrapolating on this might seem quite futile because the point is: “energymass and spacetime are together as in E=mc
2
”.
Now both elements of the existential theory have been presented: an infinite sizescale explaining size and E=mc
2
explaining existence in non-existence. The sizescale is energymasspacetime; energymasspacetime comes as a sizescale. These two concepts are a full existential theory because there is no more explanation needed. Add the fact that we know at which sizes the roof and floor of knowledge are and science itself seems complete in a significant way.
Energymass and spacetime descriptions: one for each sizescale
Let’s take quantum physics as an example: what is the wave-description? For example color is defined by the wavelength of a photon; a wavelength is a distance measurable by a ruler. What does the amplitude (the height and depth of the peak and troth) of the wave mean? It reads: “where will most light be?” For example in if one light wave is a peak and the other is a troth in the same location in space then they cancel out and no light lands where they occupy. Similarly two peaks occupying the same space means twice as much light (double brightness) lands there compared to a single wave alone.
Both wave amplitude and wave-length are distances; notice how no energymass is mentioned anywhere in the above description.
To stay on the topic of wave-particles of quantum physics: a growing number of photons as particles in a certain location means added brightness (like with wave amplitude). To know the color of a photon you need to know its energy (and energy equals mass).
If we were to place the two descriptions in the two sizescales (the energymass sizescale and the spacetime sizescale), which description would fit in which sizescale? The wave-description concerns distances of space and the particle-description concerns energymass. On the sizescale layer of quantum physics the two different sizescales (energymass and spacetime) are evident. We have one description from/for each sizescale.
If we move up a notch from quantum physics in the sizescale: what about an atom? The spherical thing ancient Greeks called the building block of all things; the spheres which let us know of their existence by reflecting and emitting light; the things that when bundled together in numbers equal to the number of stars in the visible universe make one organ such as a liver. A liver seems solid because atoms are solid objects but it turns out that atoms are mostly empty space: such a small percentage of an atom’s space is occupied by mass that I won’t bother writing all the zeros. A metaphor gives a clearer picture: there is a fly in the middle of a football stadium; the fly represents the nucleus of the atom and the electron closest to the nucleus orbits around the stadium.
And if that space to mass ratio was not enough: the masses that make up an atom are the particle-waves that fit into both sizescales. The question is: is an atom to be placed in the energymass or the spacetime sizescale? The right answer is: both (because both energymass and spacetime are its elements; an atom’s nature is that of both energymass and spacetime).
The concept of gravity since Newton was mass pulling toward mass (Newton’s world view focused on the energymass sizescale). Einstein added his curvature of spacetime-description. Both Newtonian and Einsteinian gravity explain why an apple falls toward earth. The two sizescales (energymass and spacetime) make up one sizescale (energymasspacetime).
Hence we can extend the “which sizescale does this size fit into?”-question up the sizescale even to the roof of knowledge (the visible universe).  At every size you can describe using a spacetime and an energymass-description; it’s not either spacetime or energymass but both spacetime and energymass-descriptions for every phenomenon.
The existential theory continues
The theory itself has been fully presented as it only requires two concepts: an infinite sizescale and E=mc
2
. From having the existential theory further conclusions can be reached.
One of them is what the founding fathers of the United States of America wrote: all men are equal. Because of the intertwining of energymass and spacetime it makes no sense for any part of the unobservable partlessness to have different value assigned to different locations. We deduce from E=mc2 that all men are created equal. We are part of energymasspacetime.
What about determinism; that if there was knowledge of all the details of every subatomic particle and complete knowledge of the rules that govern them there’d be the ability to predict the future in perfect detail and for any length of time. The answer is in three parts: in the realm of mind there is the experience of free will. In quantum physics we know that we cannot know certain facts about any specific particle-wave to perfect detail (if we measure where it is we don’t know where it’s going and vice versa). If the pattern of justification continues all along the infinite sizescale then there is a deterministic reason for everything but we will not know most of the reasons (most of the sizescale). Hence reality/the sizescale is deterministic but the reasons – most of the clockwork – are hidden from human knowledge.
What about the history of science? To recap the most recent events: the past thousand years have shown a trend which is even more prominent in the past 200 years, and even more prominent in the last 100 years: the trend is that knowledge has expanded tremendously. here we will focus on two subtrends: the familiarization with new sizes and the addition of objects to those sizes.
There are infinitely many objects and hence infinitely much object knowledge; infinitely many objects in each layer of the sizescale (all you need to do is move in space). If you teach a biologist about every detail about every known animal, insect and plant he wouldn’t have even close to the capacity to remember even a tiny fraction of it though nothing will be nonsensical and a complete surprise to him: there won’t be surprises like “this mammal completely lacks anything with the function of DNA” or “this lizard doesn’t need energy to grow”; all details about all new animals fit into a biologist’s existing framework/model/world view.
The framework/model/world view is the familiarity with a layer of the sizescale. The infinite non-surprising amount of knowledge is objects of the size represented by the layer and found in the infinite space that the layer can move in.
The overlap occurs because object knowledge is necessary for there to be familiarization i.e. general concepts applying to a layer. A geologist must have some, perhaps fictional, planet to think about when learning how his layer of the sizescale works. After having familiarized with that layer there is the expectation that any planet (or object of that size) behaves in the same way as other such-sized objects. Another way of saying this is that you would not expect any planet, not even a 100% iron planet, to behave like a photon (smaller) or visible universe (larger).
Hence sadly for those wanting to “complete science” there are infinitely many objects and situations of every size. On the other hand we have the entire known sizescale and you can ask a cosmologist if he is familiar with the visible universe and he would say yes, you could ask an astronomer if he is familiar with solar system sized objects and he’d say yes, you could ask a geologist if he is familiar with continents and he would say yes, …, you could ask a quantum physicist if he is familiar with quantum physics and he would say yes. In this day and age it is possible to familiarize yourself with any layer between quantum physics (floor of knowledge) and the visible universe (roof of knowledge).
There are infinitely many sublayers between each pair of layers, for example a layer could be called “6.3337”. Asteroids behave somewhat like planets and like human sized objects: asteroids are between the human layer and the geology layer. There is a need to have courses on geology but not the same need to have the same length courses on asteroids because knowledge from geology can be applied to asteroids. Using knowledge from two nearby major layers on the sizescale one can assume the layers between them to hold some properties from the two known layers; using common sense one can deduce the nature of sizes between two familiar sizes. Hence a dozen modern university-level courses can familiarize you with the major layers and then you can tie it all together and be familiar with all the knowable layers.
What does this say about the future of science and hence technological innovation? If we like continuous advancements we ought to be disappointed: a finite knowable sizescale yields finite technology because technology is practical use of knowledge of a layer.
For example, in computing we are approaching sizes where we need to manipulate building blocks smaller than atoms in order to improve computer speeds. Even if we build a quantum computer which manipulates quantum physical particle-waves, in order to achieve even higher speeds we’d need to break though the floor of knowledge. Though there might be a long way to go before the final invention from a modern perspective in the million year perspective science ended now.
If the current limits of knowledge are the ultimate limits of knowledge then this is a representation of the history of science and a prediction of the future:
Notice how long time we spent on the crust of the planet only knowing a very limited range of size, and that the future – assuming we now know the limits of knowledge – will have the currently known sizescale in the minds of humans for forever.
What about religion? Energymass intertwined with spacetime (or as I like to say: “one in zero”) as an infinite sizescale gives an atheistic alternative to religious creation-myths. Also if the unthinkable thought applies to a God which is an observer, then can God see all of His creation? Either there is separation or there is separation’s opposite and therefore no separation/observation.
Perhaps obscure texts, old and new, can be interpreted in the light of an infinite sizescale and E=mc2 thus making those who previously saw the obscure text as incoherent ramble instead see them as a metaphor for what is presented in this book; scientific facts can become meditative insight such as in the following example: thus far we know that the human layer is approximately in the middle of the sizescale – you wouldn’t expect to find a human level of consciousness in a brain the size of a planet or the size of a cell. In an infinite sizescale it is our size – the size of our brain – that is the conscious layer of the sizescale. This layer is infinite 3-dimensional space i.e. there is infinite space with the human size everywhere in it. You could say that the layer (size) is the foundation for the mind; the layer is consciousness and the brain/mind is where its inherent consciousness is manifested.
Dark matter and Dark energy
The two problems of dark matter and dark energy arise from not understanding the sizescale.  The solution is not so complex that it has not been solved because it requires more years of technological or mathematical work, but instead it’s so simple that it is obvious from knowing the nature of the known sizescale.
Recognize how the objects in the sizescale relate to each other: how atom-sized objects are different from molecules; how the nature of a cell is different from that of an organ; how a solar system does not behave like a galaxy etc. This is the very reason why there are fields of science and different specialties; there is not just one layer of the sizescale that has to be learned.
There will be attempts at more complex solutions than simply pointing at the sizescale saying: “Look! The atom is different from the human”, but these solutions will fail because the simple solution is the right one. The simple solution forces us to overcome human arrogance which has us wanting more than we can get.
In the case of dark matter the problem is confusing one layer with another or expecting two very separate layers to be the same. One size is not another. Dark matter is all about a galaxy not working like a solar system.
Dark matter is the undetected mass (by most thought to be an undiscovered particle-wave) that makes up the majority of the mass in a galaxy. If this mass was uniformly distributed and as detectable as protons, neutrons and electrons it would dominate over the everyday mass. Dark matter is the ghost elephant in the room.
Why does mainstream science propose something so radical? It is radical because it makes most of all energymass a complete mystery; if we’d solve the dark matter problem we’d know 100% instead of just a few percent of all mass. The dark matter hypothesis originates from noticing the true fact that galaxies don’t behave like solar systems do: our equations regarding gravity can’t be applied to a galaxy.
The way a galaxy differs from a solar system in terms of gravity is that you’d expect objects further away from the center of the system (galaxy or solar system) to travel significantly slower than objects nearer to the center of the system. Gravity is stronger depending on distance; gravity is weaker the further away the two objects are from one another.
This is how it works in solar systems. How do you expect this scenario to play out in a galaxy-sized system? I’d have no preconceived notions because we’re talking about a different size i.e. different layer from the sizescale and I recognize that the sizes can be very different (particle-waves are different compared to humans).
When we observe a galaxy we see that gravity doesn’t get weaker with distance like in a solar system; gravity is too strong at stars far away from the center of the galaxy; the stars furthest from the galaxy’s center move too fast to be accounted for by our solar system based knowledge of gravity. A galaxy does not behave like a solar system.
Some solve this mystery by clinging to our solar system-based model of gravity and say it applies at every size and to therefore add invisible undetected mass to the galaxy. Extra mass would add the gravity needed to account for the speed of every star in the galaxy. It’s possible to calculate how much extra mass would be needed and the answer is: more than the galaxy’s own mass; dark matter is the majority of all mass in a galaxy.
The problem obviously arises from being a fundamentalist about our solar system based equations regarding gravity. If we tweak these equations so that they differ throughout the known sizescale then it means that we’ve accepted that gravity changes; the attraction between masses is different in different layers. Masses look different on different layers hence it’s natural for the forces to be different too.
We either add more than the mass of a galaxy to a galaxy to account for the observed gravitational effects or we recognize that solar system derived equations regarding gravity apply to solar systems and galaxy derived equations regarding gravity apply to galaxies. We either keep wondering about the undetected majority of mass or we recognize the layers of the sizescale being different compared to one another.
Dark matter was about galaxies, dark energy is a similar problem of current science: in the dark energy problem we wonder why the very largest sizes of energymasspacetime i.e. very top layers of the sizescale show behavior which does not appear lower in the sizescale.
Dark energy is the phenomenon of the big bang (which is still occurring today) speeding up; galaxy clusters accelerate in their retreat from one another if they are sufficiently far apart; cosmic expansion is accelerating. The universe not only keeps adding cubic meters to its size but this expansion process is getting faster and faster as time goes. For hundreds of years it has been known that acceleration requires energy; a car speeding up burns gasoline. Hence the word “energy” in “dark energy”. What causes the acceleration noticed in these very large sizes? Either an energy (not gasoline) distributed everywhere which needless to say is unlike any known type of energy or it’s a phenomenon arising from the nature of the sizescale.
If the extreme sizes of the sizescale allow the repulsion between extremely large masses and this phenomenon is not noticed at say human sized objects then, as the sizescale grows upward (the visible universe grows), the newly created layers ought to be different than the layers beneath them. Another way of putting it is that as layers are added to the top of the sizescale (as the visible universe grows) you can expect a large (but not largest) segment of space in which accelerating cosmic expansion is noticed today to someday be what today is the very top layer, and by then there’ll be new very top layers: hence what today is seen as the large segment in which accelerating cosmic expansion occurs will be even larger i.e. even higher in the sizescale in the future and hence you’d expect it to behave differently than it does today: perhaps it’s acceleration increases.
The maximum size i.e. visible universe is today a certain number of cubic meters, in a hundred billion years it will be a very different size. Quantum physics don’t change in this way and hence you can imagine the sizescale growing upwards; the center of the sizescale moves upwards in the sizescale as time goes on. It is incomprehensible that the size of the visible universe today ought to behave like the size of the visible universe in a hundred billion years (when it is much larger i.e. somewhere very different in the sizescale).
The dark energy problem can either be solved by adding a majority of energymass to the universe in the form of dark energy, calculable by basically asking how much gasoline you’d need to accelerate all the mass in the visible universe as much as it accelerates. Or by recognizing the difference between the different sizes and thus expecting something new at the sizes where the dark energy phenomenon is observed.
The contrast between the state of the art billion dollar equipment designed to detect dark matter and dark energy and the obvious nature of the sizescale is quite spectacular. The high tech attempts at solving these mysteries have failed so far. The sizescale approach to these problems eliminates them.
Let us begin with the existential theory presented in this book: the sizescale is infinite. It’s a known fact that humanity has not been able to predict what comes next in the sizescale; when we recognized that there were different sizes we didn’t immediately deduce that we are made of organs, organs of cells, cells of proteins, proteins of atoms and atoms of quantum particle-waves. We thought our solar system was all there was as existence and then thought our billion star system galaxy was all there was. It’s been very hard to predict yet unknown layers of the sizescale. The history of science can in fact be summed up as the inability to easily deduce what objects are part of and made up of. If new layers are so hard for humanity to familiarize their civilizations with then the layers must differ from one another; why then would the galaxy to visible universe sized layers not exhibit some unpredicted behavior. If the sizescale had a predictable pattern, by this I mean that you could give the description of this pattern to the most uneducated forest tribe and they’d soon know all that science knows today, then we’d be able to predict past the limits of knowledge. This emergent (complex systems arising out of a multiplicity of relatively simple interactions) nature in the layers of the sizescale would have us expect something like dark energy and dark matter phenomena. The layers of the sizescale differ: hence the dark matter and dark energy problems. My proposal is to replace the dark energy and dark matter concepts with: “layers differ in the sizescale”.
My approach when solving the dark matter and dark energy problems was not to attempt to solve them using the sizescale-concept. Instead I simply realized that if I were presented with the evidence for and reasons why we need dark energy and dark matter I’d put these reasons and evidence into my sizescale-model and they’d fit in flawlessly; I would not be surprised if a galaxy worked differently compared to a solar system.
The sizescale movie
Let us say you are sitting on a train looking out from your body, you see your body and your surroundings. You might focus on some more or less mundane object of a certain size. Then you realize it is part of something much larger and is made up of something much smaller; the object of your focus is approximately in the middle of the known sizescale.
There are movies which zoom in and out flowing in the known sizescale. What no movie yet does is detach the observer from the sizescale-concept itself and analyze that thought.
From there you can choose a layer, remove the rest of the sizescale-concept (the other layers) and now you have an arbitrary shape defined as infinite 3-dimensional space showing a certain size. What objects are of this size? How do they behave during time? What is their history and predicted future?
Back to the sizescale-concept: in the sizescale-concept it is possible to simplify it to just ten layers shaped like say cubes. Time is present in all of them: as an atom vibrates the galaxy spins.
You might rotate that sizescale-concept so the point of view from which you see each object changes as much for every layer. Rotating the sizescale-concept applies the same rotation to every layer.
This movie idea allows for a certain degree of creativity in that you can choose which size, which object and which time to show but also whether to show the objects that make up nature or the concept with its detached observer, space between observer and sizescale-concept and the different layers representing different sizes seen simultaneously.
Why should such a movie be successful? One aspect is that people tend to experience very similar emotions regarding matters of science and philosophy: you can make the viewer feel small by zooming out until the largest known, feel complicated by dedicating time to analyzing different substructures within and among cells within a fraction of a body part, feel large compared to the limit of knowledge at particle-waves. By sequencing these feelings and then acknowledging how the majority feel in response to the shown scenes you can sell a very shared experience.
Another punch line to be said in the movie is that while comedy, drama, horror, action etc. movies must be very different in their plots on different planets where the civilization has invented movies, the sizescale movies are more universal because they focus on universal phenomena. Rules such as the spinning of galaxies, the vibration of atoms, the division of cells using DNA etc. are identical on all life bearing planets. There is no life bearing galaxy that does not spin – a non-spinning galaxy would collapse into a black hole. Atoms vibrating is heat and there is no life where there is no heat. There is no building complex organisms without mutation and the survival of the fittest and some blueprint such as DNA. This vast collection of phenomena from the many layers of the sizescale can be the basis of a movie and is identical throughout the infinite universe with its infinite number of life bearing planets. If our culture should resemble the culture of other planets we should show sizescale movies. It is a way for us to get closer to our universal brotherhood of all intelligent civilizations and our cosmic destiny because in the billions of years to come this kind of movie will be shown, if for nothing else then in schools.
This brings me to my next point: is it easy to learn under a bureaucracy of deadlines, tests, homework, schedules and teachers none of which you’ve chosen yourself? Perhaps it’d be easier to learn from sizescale movies, especially if there are many of them with different creative approaches and different teachers.
Sizescale movies consider every layer as equally difficult to learn; there is no “difficult layer” because they’re all part of the same sizescale; you can familiarize yourself with every layer of the known sizescale.
If you want an interactive digital sizescale-concept then humanity could make an animation of every known general behavior of every known energymass and put the animations in a database connected to the internet. This would allow clients to connect to the global sizescale-concept project to view humanity’s model of the known sizescale. You could click on a layer and choose a location/object, a time and a speed and thus learn how objects of interest work.
In a movie you could have a sizescale-concept from which you choose two layers: one showing the world map and one showing humans. Then, to show the history of science, you would move to different locations in the map layer to find different people whom did certain things to realize things about nature. As you change location and move forward in time you’ll have the history of science. My expectation is of course not a one-to-one representation time-wise of every lifetime who has contributed to science, rather a quick: “this person lived here, he did this which was of scientific importance and then this other person picked up the previous ideas and invented this…” A quick couple minute summary of every addition to science. The same a-lot-of-information-fast way of making movies I would apply to the more object oriented sizescale movies: a movie about geology need not spend hours and hours on the looks of different continents on earth – size, orientation and location – in million year increments during the 4500 million year history. The important point to take from continental drift is the fact that continents move, the reason why, how they move and how much they move during a certain period of time. Familiarizing yourself with the facts that (and why, how and how fast) continents move is the kind of knowledge that applies to all planets i.e. the entire layer, but object specific knowledge focuses on a certain moment in time on a certain planet. This is the difference between familiarization i.e. knowledge of a whole layer, and object specific knowledge about a particular object like earth.
This kind of education can either add to or replace modern education. Many people reach the highest levels of academia without being familiar with certain major layers of the sizescale; there are biology professors unaware of the nature of wave-particles and experts on quantum physics unaware of how galaxies collide. The previous century was all about specialization, hopefully the next century is all about familiarity with every layer of the known sizescale and knowledge of the concepts “entire sizescale” and “knowable sizescale”.
It seems universal to, like showing advertisements on large public televisions, show sizescale movies which are thought-provoking, dazzling and educational about common human medical problems. No parental advisory needed because when zooming in even the most repugnant phenomena become neutral and scientific. Unlike being bombarded with advertising bombardment by medical teachings would certainly improve humanity’s health.
With the movies, digital animated sizescale-concepts and digital oracles (which answer questions by showing the layers and times necessary to answer the client’s questions) spread on the global communications networks (internet, radio, TV, phones) there might be an event in history called an educational revolution. I believe an event as necessary as the invention of fire in the history of intelligent organisms is the educational revolution because of the easy merger of communications systems with knowledge: the educational revolution is a universal historical period in which the knowable sizescale and related concepts are taught globally. I believe we are on the threshold of this event; the period of specialization is followed by the period of unification of knowledge – the merger of all fields of science into a single sizescale.
Questions and answers
Life beyond the limits of knowledge
Could there be life elsewhere in the sizescale – life smaller than the floor of knowledge or larger than the roof of knowledge? Could there be life much larger/smaller than us in parts of the sizescale that are unknown to us? Call the layer showing a cell “layer 3” and the layer showing a galaxy “layer 8” and keep the change in size between each two layers constant – could there be life between say layers 34530 to 34540?
My only clue is Pi, as if the circle’s diameter to circumference ratio tells us anything about repeatable patterns in the sizescale.
If “4444444444444444444444” is repeated infinitely many times in the decimals of pi then why would not the known sizescale be repeated infinitely many times in the entire sizescale?
There could be a self-assembling shape i.e. reproduction in the unknowable sizescale which is all that’s needed for evolution.
The forces of the sizescale
What are the forces in the sizescale?
There are two theories regarding the forces:
either the entire sizescale only assumes the known forces as rules in creating the next object of the sizescale, or
forces come and go throughout the infinite sizescale.
Forces explain how one layer of the sizescale relates to another; forces are the rules the objects of different sizes use to achieve the next size.
The big bang’s end and beginning
How might the big bang end and begin again? How will the universe look in hundreds or thousands or who knows how many billions of years?
Galaxy clusters are accelerating in their retreat from one another whilst the mass of a galaxy whirls toward the galaxy’s central black hole. If you were the last intelligent organism in the entire visible universe you’d see your closest galaxy moving away at a speed which will soon be the speed of light, and soon you and all other mass of your galaxy will be as a black hole.
What’s in the middle of a black hole? The answer is: “one”. A black hole is a spherical mass which has a boundary (the surface of the sphere) and that which goes within this surface never goes back outside. Additionally, if you throw a computer and a TV into a black hole they become unified, indistinguishable from one another; they become one. So in the infinite gravity in the center of the black hole there is a one.
Imagine if you will a visible universe in which the nearest mass has approached the speed of light and all other mass is these invisible infinite-gravity black hole ones. Does this picture not seem eerily similar to a previous thought experiment in which you were asked to imagine nothing in which E=mc2 is true? Could such an entire known-sizescale spanning range of sizes be considered the kind of emptiness in which E=mc2 summons existence in the smallest spaces? If that is the case, our existence begins as as dense as can be known (which we know it did begin as) and ends as the opposite: complete emptiness in which E=mc2.
The time between end (emptiness in which E=mc2) and beginning (“quark-gluon plasma” i.e. maximum density) is interesting. In my mind the leap between the two is straight-forward but if you were observing this time there’d be a huge difference from one moment (end) to the next (beginning).
Because of the necessarily unobservable time between end and Big Bang seeming very unintuitive and unlike events in everyday life I find myself struggling to believe this idea but this is the only theory I have which acknowledges the black holes that mass gravitates toward, the accelerating cosmic expansion and the E=mc2 and sizescale concepts.
The first three evolutionary principles are like laws of nature applying to reproducing organisms. As soon as there was reproduction, three laws of nature became relevant: those who survive survive; number of offspring matters; and, there is mutation in each generation. A single cell reproducing would´ve been subject to these three laws. Then, when a mutation arose that allowed for the injection done by one organism into another organism so that the victim start producing the perpetrator´s offspring instead of his own, “power” became relevant as yet another evolutionary principle.
To counteract such power, immune systems evolved. Thus we have multicellular organisms which designate some of their own cells to counteract parasitism from hostile bacteria and viruses. Multicellularity opened the door for a multitude of additional evolutionarily benefitial mutations such as fins, eyes, etc; fish are simple creatures, all of their traits easily arising and growing with no rare or major mutations needed.
Already in a fish, a cortex-like structure (flexible bundles of cells that wire themselves differently depending on what the particular organism vielding this learning structure requires) evolved to adapt the behavior to the anatomy; to counteract developmental mishaps or injuries, that for example in a fish might leave one fin shorter than the other – if the brain doesn´t adapt to this and doesn´t know of the difference between the two fins, the organism will swim in circles when trying to swim straight. If it has a hard-wired behavior for swimming straight, and if this circuit doesn´t utilize the ability to learn, even the smallest injury will defect the organism when trying to swim in a straight line. If you can´t tell what you´re steering (can´t learn, but are hard-wired to maneuver a certain anatomy that has to develop perfectly for you to be able to steer it) you will not be as successful as those who can learn even the tiniest amount; such as swimming in straight lines even if you had a minor injury to one fin.
Getting onto land of these sexually reproducing creatures, males being able to produce millions of sperm every day (and possibly impregnating many females) while females produce a scarce number of egg-cells and can only produce so many offspring while the male can produce far more, competition among males arose because competing males have more sexual opportunities/possibilities.
Thus the bigger the male, he´ll be able to scare away less fearsome males. The more deadly the claws, jaws, tails, horns that the male has, the more likely he is to pass his genome on to a multitude of children, on the expense of more gentle males. Thus evolution favors the most deadly gene for males.
Women´s sexual strategy also incorporates the scale from gentle to fierce that males find themselves in. The more capable of reproducing the male is, if a woman mates with such a male, her male children are likely to bear his traits and be able to find many partners (and make grandchildren, which is what the woman´s genome wants).
Dinosaurs thus have pre-requisites: multicellular organisms (with immune systems), which arose from power (parasitism) being beneficial, which arose from the three first evolutionary principles, which arose from there being reproduction. Dinosaurs thus are a sub-principle of multicellularity, which is a sub-principle of power by injection of DNA, which is a sub-principle of the first three principles.
With a Malthusian crisis, meaning competition for resources makes survival difficult, groups arise. Previously individualistic organisms mutate as to take favors from and give favors to fellow organisms, so as to out-compete individualists. Groups out-compete individuals in fights.
By this time, language should arise so as to allow the group-living organisms to send and receive messages regarding food and threats, and the details such as which direction to go while hunting for food.
In a group of organisms that cooperate, hierarchies arise because being able to stay within the group but still having more women than average was beneficial. Again the principle of power comes into play, mutating the hard-wired part of the organisms brain so that it starts behaving in a way that makes it want to be on top of the hierarchy rather than anywhere else in it.
The cortex has grown to handle language, to stay within the group, and now it will spend its idle time using the memory-prediction nature of the cortex to try to predict scenarios (based on memory) that will lead to more hierarchical power for the planning organism. If an imagined future sequence of behaviors – telling this group-member this thing, that group member that thing, using this tool for that – leads to more power, this plan (sequence of contexts) is marked as important using dopamine and thus remembered. Then steps are undertaken to act out the plan. Once this kind of organism became “king” (the top of the hierarchy) – where one gets by being able to remember and predict behaviors that lead to the top – it lead to more women as sexual partners, thus his anatomy was passed in his genome to disproportionately many children, who then had the same anatomy in the hard-wired brain as to, when the cortex is idle, start planning and if one plan seems to lead to more power, the plan is undertaken. The cortex is hijacked by the old brain to plan (predict based on memory), and the old-brain will eavesdrop on the thoughts going on in the cortex until two concepts fire together: “self” and “more power”; then the old-brain will intervene by marking whatever thoughts just happened as important.
This was a benefitial mutation because those having it survived and those who didn´t have it eventually died out, became extinct because they didn´t care to place themselves anywhere in a hierarchy because they didn´t think in terms of hierarchies. Even if their cortex created a memory-based prediction that lead to more power, some organisms at some point in time must not have cared more about such thoughts than any other thought; the old-brain requires a certain anatomy (from certain genes) to be able to react to thoughts leading to power.
The cortex growing was to a large degree a consequence  of those able to plan – by having larger cortexes – having more children because they, in a Machiavellian manner, climbed to the top. The largest cortexed creatures were the most high in the hierarchy. Thus children in the next generation had larger cortexes than children had had in previous generations. The largest cortex of these, able to plan more scenarios more quickly, able to record more memories and access more of all memories simultaneously, were always more likely to climb to the top – generation after generation. During millions of years, the general rule was that if you wanted to find the most intelligent organism alive, you´d look to the king rather than the bullied. This explains the rapid growth-related mutations of the cortex during the past millions of years.
By this time, the concept “I” was in the old brain already because the old brain, when requesting the cortex to plan, wants to gear the cortex into planning things that regard the self. The cortex without the old brain would be just as likely to think about the causes and effects of any random totally not evolutionarily beneficial sequences of events. By mutating an old brain that is only interested in thoughts that relate to the self, keeps the cortex thinking for the organism itself. We thus are likely to, if we look for a self in any thought we may have, find a self there almost all of the time. Thoughts not at all relevant to (or associated to) ourselves we should find uninteresting.
The word “I” came into use when we´d had benefits from being able to speak; to learn from each others´ experiences, to plan hunts together, or to gain more power for ourselves by creating sub-groups within the group that can team up against the rest of the members of the larger group (thus leading to sexual benefits for those doing this). To recruit members of the group to our side, to help us with our endeavors, required a thorough capability of handling language.
Life for these cavemen then consisted of experiences such as the old brain asking the cortex to plan how to get food (hunger), thirst, temperature, etc. Other than these homeostasis-related inputs to the cortex coming from the old brain monitoring the blood (nutrient levels, oxygen levels, etc), external inputs came via the senses: a male seeing a symmetrical face, fat boobs, fat ass (“fat” as in caveman standards where food was scarce) and a particular hip-to-waist ratio would have his old brain hijack the cortex for plans about sex. When the cortex was idle, plans would be made for gaining more power and preserving the power one already has, same gain-and-preservation goals regarding ones resources (wealth), and thinking about ones family (if a friend or family member has a problem, it should be thought about, the old brain waiting to mark thoughts relating to a solution to the family members´ problem as important). Power, resources and family is what idle cortexes think about because it was an evolutionary benefit not to have a caveman not use his cortex, but using an otherwise idle cortex (i.e. which is not hungry or anything else) to plan how to get power, resources and help ones family.
Life in those days was simple: hunger, thirst and other homeostatic hijackings of the cortex; looking at women, behaving a certain way if a friend was nearby, etc. as responses to external input; planning for power, resources and helping family if otherwise idle. Cortexes must have learned to say words to refers to each of these few dozen things the cortex always thinks about. A shared vocabulary containing words referring to the things humans thought about, and life continuing like this for an entire lifetime, knowing it has continued so for many lifetimes, must have led to someone innovating by doing something new; something other than these few dozen universal thoughts. Maybe someone out of his own will or out of a mean joke by his superiors began to think about each word, focusing on word after word to uncover what it means. Is “animal” a well-defined word, when in the real world it can be used about antelopes, buffalos, birds and worms – and even humans? They must have had concepts for each of these animals, but they can all be called animals as to distinguish them from plants or dirt – and when these animals are painted on cave walls people can be asked: “in one word, what is painted in the cave?” so as to force the answer to contain all different animals in a single word. This was an analysis of the word “animal”, but what about the word “I”. When the cortex is requested to focus on the word I, it soon finds itself finding out that whatever is perceived by (or in front of) the I cannot be the I because then there´d be two I´s (we evolved to define I as one self). When the word “I” is focused on, it being a concept, one can ask who perceives it; then if the perceiver can be perceived. If there are two I´s – one is a thought or word one was asked to think about, and the other is unseen – then the unseen I must be the true one rather than the I separate from (perceived as being located a distance away from the true self) the true self.
This is a purely cortical task, which makes the thought-based I injected into the cortex from the old brain to pursue evolutionary goals less important. The circuit created into the flexible cortex by focusing on the concept of “I” and finding that oneself cannot be in front of (or any distance away from, separate from) oneself, is a far more interesting endeavor to pursue than the cortex-idle tasks (power, resources, family). It is likely to be pursued because finding ones true self i.e. having a circuit (which is the same on all planets in any animal thinking about the word “I”) is thought related to oneself and it diminishes the importance of the evolved default self which is basically located in the old brain.
Thus someone focusing on the word I, maybe looking like a crazy guy because by finding what I´ve just described he runs and jumps around screaming “I, I, me, me! focus on ‘myself’!”. At first he might seem crazy, but once say a child does as he is told (analyzes the word “I”), he will also develop the same purely cortical I-circuit with its self-definition different from what others mean when they talk about the self (related to power, resources and relationships). In the people who´ve focused on the word “I” there will be two competing circuits for the claim to selfhood: one claim to selfhood will be in the thoughts related to survival and reproduction. One claim to selfhood will lie in the circuit that analyzes and sees and perceives even the subtlest things – this is a purely cortical and thus purely cultural anatomical structure (passed linguistically and not genetically from generation to generation).
People find interesting thoughts such as “if ‘reality’ is all there is; can it be seen? Because if so, isn´t the see-er separate from reality by seeing all of it?” and “can the self be seen? Because if you do a directional self-inquiry you´ll find it is in no direction away from you.” These thoughts get passed in the oral tradition, and they make life easier because the urge to think about preserving power might include thoughts about a very possible situation where one loses power (or if you´re a woman whom don´t compete for power because it didn´t lead them to sexual monopoly because they don´t gain benefits from having such sexual access to all men, because they are the selector of men while men are the competitors for women). Thoughts can scare us; the old brain sends negative emotions to the cortex if the cortex conjures up a plan/future scenario where one loses power, resources, health, etc.; and by defining the self as not the self involved in such scary evolution-related thoughts, the thoughts become less scary because they don´t concern the true self. The only self involved in them was the evolutionarily created old-brain injected-into-the-cortex “self” which keeps people thinking about their own evolutionarily beneficial plans.
This thought (which might have been phrased, “look at the self; who watches this?” in caveman days) would´ve been passed on as all true conclusions were (it´s an evolutionary benefit to teach especially ones children all of ones true knowledge), along with some superstitions and random crap that happened to get marked as important by the cognitive filters and biases of our knowledge-gathering abilities.
Generations passing, false conclusions would likely die out eventually, while the true conclusions (like the cortical circuit generated by examining “self” and “reality”) would never be removed from the culture. Freud argued this in response to the question of why the ancient myths are here; why were they remembered generation after generation instead of some other stories? Freud´s response was that they tell us something about universal truths such as human nature.
Jesus can be explained by him being a man whom wired his cortex by focusing on the words “self” and “reality” – his teaching after all put a lot of emphasis on soul and reality.
We thus live in an age where many true conclusions are being said, having been passed on, on and on, through the generations, along with some false conclusions that haven´t been disproven yet. Also, what occupies our cortexes is the occasional (or for those who haven´t focused on self, reality nor science) request for power, resources and family to be well. And of course the homeostatic urges like hunger, thirst, etc. That seems to be a pretty accurate description of humans today.
The event where I left off talking about evolutionary principles was somewhere around “caveman´s brains started growing because previous principles were that we lived in groups, because groups out-competed individualists, which was a principle gained from individuals competing, which was a principle arising from there being multicellularity (and sexual reproduction to modify the immune system to keep it up to date with the latest parasites), which were principles based on that there was power (parasitism), which arose from the original first evolutionary principles of survival and death, reproduction matters and mutation happens, which arose in the sizescale at a particular size where reproduction happens.
We´ve thus reasoned our way from reproduction leading to principles and subprinciples and subprinciples of subprinciples, all the way to the cortex growing in group-dwelling, sexually reproducing, language-capable multicellular organisms. We´ve also looked at the continuous transition from evolution-based to culture based, where the concept I in the old brain evolved to keep the cortex planning for the evolutionary needs of the organism. Then that the concept I was used in a social context i.e. linguistically. That is the transition between pre-culture and culture. Someone focusing on the self, wiring his cortex to be able to focus on the self (thus defining it in a different way than would´ve been available in lesser creatures), was the beginning of religion (because one becomes “less worldly”). The founding figures of religions thus are a principle based on the principle of language-based multicellular organisms focusing on words, in particular the word “I”.
The founding of America and the revolutionary ideas of democracy also show a principle: that the cortex is able to come into conflict with the seemingly eternal evolutionary patterns of “more power for oneself” by favoring an equal distribution of power by having the rule of law, where every man can ask “whom is above me in the hierarchy?” (a question cavemen asked) and when the answer is “the law, and only the law” then the old brain interprets this cortical thought as that “no-one (no person) is above me, thus I must be at the very top – exactly where I want to be”). Thus in America, everyone can feel like a king – a hard-wired old-brain feeling that used to only be available for the actual king during caveman days.
Every man wants to be king because we´re the descendants of kings because they got the most children, every generation during millions of years (the old brain might have an image of a triangle, the goal being that oneself is the top of the triangle and everyone else are the rest of the triangle). America´s contribution thus is that every man can feel like a king because the question (which the old brain recognizes) “who is on top of me in the hierarchy; who has absolute and arbitrary power over my will?”, in democracies, yields the answer: “the law, which we all vote for and have created”. Democracy makes it possible to satisfy the urge for power to some extent, even though it was an evolutionary benefit for the king to take away as much power as possible from everyone else. We didn´t evolve an anatomical circuit that puts a ceiling and limit to our urge for power; what would be the evolutionary benefit of that? We keep what we have and always try to get more, if we listen only to urges of our old brain.
Maximum happiness for most amounts of people makes us want to have everyone feel like a king, by instituting democracy and the rule of law. Then not only one person can feel like the king, but everyone can. Another positive result of the American political invention is that, a king always wanting more power would – if it didn´t interfere with his security – want every man possible to live on the verge of starvation, having no power to use to diminish the king´s power. Also, part of the male sexual strategy has evolved to be to perform conspicuous spending: to show women that resources are plentiful for offspring whom the king thinks are his. If a king can, he will want maximum possible sexual monopoly – assigning as few women as possible to other men (those who help him). Thus the genome stands before a choice: fulfill its emotions maximally and all men are killed or kept weak, all women are king´s property and resources are squandered; the other option is to neglect some requested hijackings of the cortex and instead use the cortex to do the moral (maximum happiness for most amount of people) but not as emotionally positive things. Luckily the emotion fades leaving us as happy that we did something good for the world as we would´ve been had we instead done conspicuous spending.
Meditation is cortex watching or taking input from itself. Cortical connections to other cortical regions involved in serving (being hijacked by) old brain requests.
To divide the largest functional size: the brain, into 2 parts: the cortex and the old brain, the flexible and the hard-wired is the next diagram. it illustrates information flow i.e. neuronal activation along time (x-axis), it going from cortex to old brain and back, repeatedly. A common scenario is that many pieces of information are abstracted in the cortex and three abstractions correspond to evolutionary old-brain concepts (neuronal clusters) thus activating the old brain.
Proof-checking. serotonin and dopamine interact with one another in two brainhalves: one visual and one linguistic). serotonin is a fish-net colonizing neurotransmitter spreading out like fungal growth. It activates randomly, thus causing activation of associated concepts, i.e. activation can occur at level of concept or context. If serotonin is doing its job in the left linguistic brainhalf then information can only reach the visual right brainhalf through corpus collosum. Activation of concepts in a temporal sequence thus causes visual imagination of the same concepts in the same temporal sequence.  Those things that can be imagined are highlighted, marked as important, with dopamine in the visual brainhalf. Dopaminergic information travels across corpus collosum and highlights the same concepts as sensical in the left brainhalf. next time serotonin randomly explores in the linguistic brainhalf, maybe it activates (by cells being associated and giant clusters previously confirmed by dopamine firing together) first a previously confirmed large sequence of concepts and then an additional random concept which must be proof-checked in the right brainhalf, marked by dopamine in the right brainhalf, and finally marked by dopamine in the left brainhalf to be added to the already remembered cluster of concepts.
Dividing the brain into cortex-cortex, cortex-oldbrain, left and right brainhalves shows why these large-scale anatomical traits evolved: each division shows the function of the anatomical division.
The goal of the mind is to gain survival and reproductive advantage; thus power is a goal. The entire model strives toward these goals. The emotions coming into the perfect logical structure the cortex from the old brain, hijacking the cortex to reach said goals, are to be understood.
Question: “how does the cortex – a perfect truth-generator – get hijacked into trying to reach evolutionary goals; even endless goals such as more power?”
Anatomically sensory data passes through or reaches the cortex before it reaches the old brain (except in the case of reflex-like stimulus-response events). It is the cortex´s evolutionary task – beneficial to survival & reproduction – to transmit this information to the old brain by being hijacked to answer old-brain-questions such as “does this give me [more wealth]?”. The old brain not only actively queries the cortex to search for fulfillment of emotions in evolutionary tasks, but also listens to certain concepts in the cortex to see when they activate. This is ingeniously accomplished by “wire together fire together”, meaning that sensory data either culturally learnt from parents or other humans or by the old brain seeing the same vision that has been seen for millions of years, fires an old brain concept/context simultaneously as the cortex abstracts the raw data input into a concept/context. Thus the idea of “food” exists in the cortex and in the old brain, and these two concepts are anatomically wired together because of “fire together wire together”. In summary it can be said that there is a mutual parasitism as the relationship between cortex and old brain: the old brain needs the cortex to survive (to proof-check imagined behavioral strategies, to interpret an ever more subtle social world, etc) and the cortex needs the old brain to survive/exist. This begs the question: who is the master – the old brain emotionally pushes and pulls the cortex to perform especially tasks related to homeostasis (which is why torture works, and why it produces desperate solutions from the tortured like lying). The cortex not only (once it has homeostasis) rests, but can also work (to gain power): giving rise to art, literature, science, music and the like.
The information processed through previously described functions is more or less abstract.
The brain learns by having genetic goals
A child´s cortex gets sensory input and after having gotten sensory input during every waking hour for months or years, the child can be seen behaving in a way that demonstrates that it has understood certain streams of spatial and temporal sensory neuron activation sequences as objects; another way of saying this is that we see that the child has learnt to understand and relates to some aspects of the world as we adults do.
How is the child´s cortex calibrated; how does the brain learn as what to interpret temporal-spatial neuronal input so accurately? It cannot be genetically hard-wired every step of the way because if a stray free-radical or other damaging molecule changes any point in the entire neuronal path from the visual cell in the eye to the end point – and these changes would be in all of us – there´d be an anomaly (such as moving one pixel to another location) in what we see; and it has to involve the pruning (removing) of many synapses because this is what we see anatomically in babies.
The way I would engineer this, knowing that certain environmental objects have been the same since the beginning of life, would be to use the moon, trees, grass, rocks, water, other humans and other things that have looked the same forever as hard-wired genetic goals which the cortex strives to see. Since the moon certainly appears when darkness reigns and humans gather around the campfire, a baby would be triggered by the campfire and darkness to look for something upwards which only becomes accurate when the muscles in the eye have a very particular strain on them. By the baby keeping gazing at the not-so-in-focus moon, his eye muscles move until the moon is as in focus as it will be that night. This configuration of the eye-muscles is remembered as useful for looking at the most distant objects. Now, based on this configuration, and using other objects represented as goals in our hard-wired old brain, a child´s “fire-together wire together”-feature in the cortex has a certain temporal-spatial pattern in the cortex fire at the same time as a genetic pattern fires. For example, the brain figures that if the child is outdoors and the wind blows and its dark and humans are around a campfire and there´s something bright in the sky, the “moon”-sequence in the old brain fires – now the child knows the goal. As long as the moon is in front of the child´s eyes, a cortical input pattern fires and reaches the goal coming from the old brain. The neurons and the muscular configuration in the eye necessary to see the goal accurately is saved by fire-together-wire-together and all else is pruned away.
This is a method of having a number of old-brain goals which send sequences of firing neurons into the cortex as what it wants to see in order to reward the baby with dopamine (dopamine also strengthens neuronal connections in the cortex). Two locations fire simultaneously: the cortex and the old brain fires when the old brain thinks it sees a goal. Thus the cortex knows how what it sees should look like. From the moon we may learn how far away to focus our gaze; from a tree we may learn angles and lines and other things necessary to process 3-dimensional objects, and we can then use the things learnt from a tree on any object.
So now our baby has learned angles, distances etc. from trees, sand, stones, the moon and other old objects.
Now the old brain activates a similar goal which involves multiple objects: attempt to move your muscles until a certain old-brain task is accomplished: for example the baby might now have the goal of picking up a thing and placing it in its mouth (a necessary thing for hunter-gatherers). Once the complex muscular pattern approaches the sequence saved genetically in the old brain, that part of the effort is strengthened by dopamine. Once the full muscular pattern of grasping an object and putting it in one´s mouth – once sensory experience first told of an object on the ground and then the sensors in the mouth telling of the object being in the mouth – the sequence in the motor cortex is saved as “how to grasp and object and put it in the mouth”. By learning many such sequences and combining parts from them, we gain full control of our muscles and can execute muscular patterns according to will; this explains why our old brain is larger than in other animals (we have more hard-wiring than other animals).
The same thing happens again:
the old brain has a goal like [getting food]. By memorizing feedback from the environment as a reaction to our input into it (by learning from out actions), we find ways we have previously [gotten food] and how we have seen others [get food]. We especially trust and thus learn from our parents because they have survived to reproduce and genetically can´t help but to want us (their child) to reproduce. So we look at them and imitate them. In doing this, the brain has a goal coming from the old brain and through imitation we can reach the goal. A more useful, flexible, adapting way to learn what one needs to do to reach the goal one strives for, is to have two brainhalves, two different molecules as neurotransmitters, and thus be able to proof-check imagined (non-real) scenarios and most importantly whether their outcome reaches the goal or not.
In a baby, a cortical pattern is seen to correspond to an old brain pattern because old genetically learned input from the senses (wind, darkness, campfire for example) had us activate the goal i.e. expect the moon.
In an adult, a cortical pattern is seen and known to be an imagined fictional scenario based on objects learned before, and if part of the imagined scenario corresponds (such as “me gets food”) to something the old brain can understand, causing us to remember the imagined scenario/cortical pattern and perform it just like we perform muscle movements one after the other in order to reach the goal.
We imagine random objects performing tasks as we´ve seen them do before, and if a sequence of events 1) is proof-checked by being imagined, and 2) leads to our goal, the old brain has successfully hijacked and used the cortex for its own purposes.
Thus so far, the same kind of old-brain-cortex interaction leads to:
a infant learning angles, shapes from tree, moon, sand, grass…
a baby learning muscular movements and to use its body for movement at will…
a child learning what should be imaginable and what isn´t possible (the monkey jumped into the water vs. the water jumped into the monkey)…
a youth proof-checking imagined scenarios in order to reach goals – goals in this stage of development meaning: survival benefits (money?), reproductive benefits (whatever advertising tells us?) and power (career?).
During 10 million years we´ve been living in a hierarchical society which I will simplify into “king, aristocrats, peasants” (three societal classes).
This is because the 4 evolutionary principles:
1: those who survive survive (and those who die die)
2: the number of offspring you have matters (your genes will be in more people in the next generation)
3: mutation happens (offspring are different from parents).
a: power matters (if you can make others produce your offspring, you successfully exploit rule nr 2).
A single cell has evolutionary benefits from injecting its DNA into surrounding self-replicating cells. This is called parasitism and is the successful strategy of viruses and parasitic bacteria.
One way for a cell victim of parasitism to overcome its oppressor is to become sexually reproducing (having two genders and thus more mutation in the immune system detecting parasites).
The same happens in dinosaurs whom grew big because power matters: if they could suppress other´s reproduction and the male have as many female dinosaurs as possible, they´d have more offspring. Killing power was power.
Even without a meteor impact 65 million years ago, the number of mass stuck in giant killers contrasted with the amount of mass in vegetation would have increased. Vegetation have no killing power and help increase the killing power of animals.
The small mammals who survived the extinction of the dinosaurs would´ve found power useful if they lived in groups. Living in groups gave them evolutionary benefits. The way to gain power in a group is a selection pressure evolving a cortex able to remember the past and predict the future. For example monkeys swinging with their grasping arms in trees would´ve gained from being able to scream to let the group know a predator is near, and would´ve gained from being able to communicate where the pray is (and most pray feed more than one monkey). The way to become the dominant gorilla (from now on called “King Kong”) would´ve required a cortex able to think about the consequences of various behaviors toward other primates of the group. To be able to think “if I do this then I´ll probably die… and if I do this then I´ll risk being killed but increase my reproduction a little bit… and if I do this then I´ll become king and with the addition of this I´ll get support from strongmen who can keep me in power”. Even 10 million years ago, these pre-humans would´ve been able to plan their social strategy to maximize reproduction and survival (power being the strongest emotion because it gives you extreme reproductive potential). It makes sense for men´s strongest emotion to be the urge to become King (the very top of the hierarchy).
Written history in Asia, Africa, America and everywhere else begins with kings having many sexual partners. In each of these kingdoms a modern engineer couldn´t have produced a more efficient breeding machine than these king created. The urge to gain power meant that kings would take away power from whomever they could, if their cortex considered the behavior a worthwhile deal.
Say 5 million years ago it would´ve been enough to simply think and talk to come up with ways to get power. Those whose cortex mutated (evolutionary principle nr 3) to become slightly larger were able to plan better, were more likely to become king or at least have more children, and thus the gene coding for a big cortex would´ve been passed to MANY offspring in the next generation. The urge to power evolved the cortex. At a certain level of social complexity only those reproduce whom have a cortex possibly able to plan strategies with pen and paper.
This is why medieval kingdoms, the king obeying the divine right of kings meaning he just follows his strongest urge (his cortex automatically planning to satisfy this urge over and over again), sent low class men into war. The men get more power to the king, and their women can be impregnated by those higher in the hierarchy. Today the same phenomenon is a man seeing a stranger girl in a bar, a group of stranger guys going over to her and the man who wants that girl will feel like saying or doing something to get the girl: perhaps say that god wants them all to find a wife each and live monogamously forever, and punish them with violence, status-loss and eternal hell if they divorce. Or send them to work or war if they are under your command. This would´ve worked in a 200-person tribe 6 million years ago too. Our old hard-wired genetic brain sends the request to get power, and the strategies that worked when we were monkeys are then suggested from the old brain to the cortex, then the cortex is free to predict and imagine possible outcomes trying to satisfy the desire, to reach the goal which is hard-wired. We´ve lived in hierarchies for so long that our brain knows what we want in a hierarchy, just like it knows which woman is attractive (visual fertility signals from women are recognized by the old brain).
Since tribes would often come into contact with one another, we´ve evolved ways to survive in tribal war. One strategy, activated by the old brain hearing “war is coming” from the cortex, is planning how to win this battle. We needed no planning when we were four-legged monkeys, but even a little bit more evolution would´ve meant the enlarging of the cortex genetically because large cortexes plan battles better. This signal (“war is coming”) recognized by the old brain, can be used to think better – it frees our cortex to plan how to win. No emotion can in the preparing-for-war state of mind interrupt the planning, because war means the enemy tribe´s women start breeding ones own children (parasitism) and if one loses the war one doesn´t manage well regarding rule nr 1 (the surviving survive).
“If I were an aristocrat in a medieval kingdom meaning I am the landlord owning say 100 peasants/slaves, I´d tell my peasants that each one must marry for life and if he divorces he is punished. In order to maximize my reproduction, I would then send the husband to work/war and meanwhile have sex with his wife. The wife would´ve evolved to like this because now her child has the protection of both the husband (lower-class provider) and of the landlord (high-class male). Women, if they can and don´t suppress this emotion cortically, will cheat on their regular partner with higher class men. During 10 million years this would´ve maximized the chances of her genes in her child grow up to reproduce.
In men, a rather disturbing thing to know is that it makes evolutionary sense and is observed in monkeys that males kill children whom aren´t theirs and make the woman produce their own children. Of course, this is works by the old brain sending the urge to kill another man´s child to the cortex and the cortex has to think about the consequences. Because of moral philosophy and law we see much less of this today than a long time ago. But the old-brain wiring i.e. the emotion and request sent to the cortex exists in all modern men, proven by looking at male-to-child child-abuse statistics: adopted children are more likely to experience violence from their non-biological new father. It shouldn´t be difficult to suppress the urge to kill another man´s child, but much harder to be nice to other men´s male children. This emotion can be removed by the cortex thinking “that might be my child i.e. I slept with his wife” or “that is a family member i.e. bearing my genes”, or by a cortical task that cannot afford such minor issues as one child not bearing ones own genes. An example of such an emotion is that one is king (the topmost block of the pyramid) and must use the cortex to plan how to gain power in a very complicated kingdom; this emotion is launched by the cortex thinking like a king would think (tip: a king doesn´t think: “wow, it´s so cool I´m king” because kings thinking i.e. spending their cortex on that would´ve soon been overthrown).
“Now that I´ve arrived at top of the hierarchy (most of our emotions are calibrated to 200-man tribes), I have strongmen whom I give say 10 women each for keeping me in power. They´ll loyally keep the slaves in their place. Should I remove power from the slaves? If I do, maybe they revolt – let me think about how many aristocrats I have… If I don´t remove power from them, maybe they´ll be able to overthrow aristocrats and/or me. I keep my aristocrats at hand´s distance; not at my level of power but very near.”
Even though evolution would´ve made any organism´s strongest emotion the urge to ultimate power, the only facts we have direct access to are homeostasis (homeostasis is: temperature, nutrient level (food), oxygen level, water level (thirst)). We have cells that can measure these four different facts in our body. Since Ferrari cars are a new invention and thus we can´t have a hard-wired emotion toward them, it is up to our cortex to trigger every non-homeostatic emotion. If we see Ferraris as meaning high status (in the hierarchy which we evolved with), our old brain will respond with the same emotion that a caveman would´ve gotten when he saw someone have a primitive status symbol. Another example of this is that even though we haven´t evolved with global banking system interest rate raises by the government as stated in the newspaper, many of us react with emotion to such news because interest rate rising is cortically interpreted as “I´ll have less money” and money is connected to food because of food stores. Thus the concepts “I´ll have less”  and “food” are activated simultaneously – and the old brain can understand those two concepts.
The way this is achieved anatomically is because neurons that fire together wire together. The old brain is born with concepts like “food” and “having less”. These old brain concepts fire simultaneously in our infancy and childhood as our mother or other humans say words referring to said concepts, and because we hear those words as we see what the old brain recognizes as food and/or having less, fire-together-wire-together has the cortical learned word (concept) “food” wire together (associate) to the old brain genetically hard wired neuronal cluster (concept) “food”. They fire simultaneously.
By evolution making neurons that fire together wire together, cortical thoughts (even about interest rates) can cause a modern man to have emotions only useful in caveman societies.
“I´m planning how to start war with the enemy tribe; a good time to do so is now because we´re militarily stronger than they are. The reward would be all their women, having killed all their men. When should I tell the other tribal leaders about my plan; I cannot allow the enemy clan finding out any leaked information about our attack. Perhaps I shouldn´t tell everyone in the tribe my plan yet; perhaps motivational speeches preparing for war should only be done hours before the attack. What weapons should we use? Do we need more? Which men should lead the attack? Should we attack in the morning or evening, and tomorrow or the day after tomorrow? How should we enter their camp – whom of us run where?” [My group wins the war, snatches women from enemy camp] “Now that these women are in our camp, they´ve already been assigned to men. The king gave some to his aristocrats so that they´ll stay loyal, and has sexual monopoly on his own women. The women – rather than committing the evolutionary mistake of causing trouble among their new owners by fighting, sabotaging or running away – seem as happy as they were in their old tribe. An evolutionary benefit for them would be to show appreciation to their new tribe. They seem quite happy we snatched them.”
Why did America not remain subject to Great Britain´s king? The cortex had evolved – because of power struggle in a hierarchy requiring and favoring ever greater cortical abilities – to the point where, even though the founding fathers each emotionally wanted to be at the very top of the hierarchy, it was able to devise a plan that allowed everyone to be king of his own realm (I can feel like a king just by the cortex saying to my old brain things only a king would think). The founding fathers might have seen that the Great Britain´s king´s struggle for ever more power is endless, and thus they saw it as futile to try to accomplish an infinite task; to satisfy an endless urge. Also, their cortex realized that they themselves would have more power if they could separate from Great Britain´s domination – rather than being mere colonies, Americans made an effort to gain power for themselves by the Boston Tea Party. Their cortex realized that their status would rise by doing the Boston Tea Party and accomplishing independence from Great Britain. Thus their strongest emotion urged them to rise in power by doing what the cortex suggested/planned/predicted.
By sending Great Britain´s peasant men to fight the war in America, they gained more power for the king, and while they were in war their women would have wanted to have future protection for their children by having sex with the aristocrat. Another measure available to the aristocrat to ensure that the child is either his or the woman´s husband´s, would have been to tell all peasant men that marriage is for life (eternal) and monogamous. This law would´ve prevented the lone woman from becoming impregnated by the other peasants. In caveman societies the king and the aristocrats, would have had to assign some women to the slave men because that keeps the slave population from becoming too small and denies too much aristocratic emotional protection to those children. This strategy would´ve maximized the number of women available to those vielding power.
Our genes should have evolved to cause certain kinds of behavior depending on if the organism they´re in is currently slave, aristocrat or king. Since societal status is not part of homeostasis, the only way for the old brain to determine which kinds of behavior to launch is to listen to the cortex. If the cortex says that oneself is low in the society, ones behavior is not that of a king because the slaves acting like kings would´ve been killed by the actual king. If one is king but feels and thinks like a slave, one will obey any aristocrat´s commandments and thus one dies.
We trust our parents because their interest is having us survive to reproduce for their genes to continue. If, let´s say, my finnish grandmother was under occupation by Russia and she and every other finn obeyed the commands of the russian soldiers, her survival strategy was to act like a slave. The cortical circuits that helped our parents survive are passed onto us (the children) in education – if my parents survived to reproduce with the cortex they have I´ll probably survive to reproducing by doing like they did. Thus my grandmother would´ve showed my mother how to survive, which was to obey aristocrats become oneself is lower than them. My mother would´ve survived fine from the 1960s with that behavioral pattern active, and I would also have learned that we should obey whatever anyone above us says, and that we are poor. But by thinking “now I´m king” and seeing the triangle-shaped hierarchy and seeing oneself as the topmost tip of the triangle and everyone else is the rest of the triangle, and then starting to think how to secure power more thoroughly (thinking like a king) can undo/remove/apoptose any other way of being in the world; any other cortical pattern such as that oneself is slave or aristocrat.
Likewise, thinking “war is coming” like the founding fathers thought, makes us achieve. We start planning: our cortex is liberated. We can use this liberation of our thinking brain for anything because exactly what to do to win a battle cannot be hard-wired. We didn´t evolve with modern armies yet we can cortically design military tactics because preparation of war is the best way to start planning; again because war has always been the striving for power and getting access to more women and these are evolutionarily very strong benefits and for 10 million years the thought “future war” required our cortex to be able to plan.
Power has been in evolution since a single cell evolved the two mutations needed to inject its DNA into surrounding cells: one gene that makes a cylinder that breaks through the cell wall (for injection); one gene that makes the piece of DNA to inject. Power struggle had the cortex enlargen generation after generation because we gain power by remembering and predicting social moves. Power struggle caused all the kings´ wars. Still power is very important in global politics and everyday life. We can thank the power struggle (and the “divine right of kings”) for us having the large cortex that makes us human; we can thank this large cortex for the freedom we have under the american-engineered political and legal system.
When we think for example “I better not daydream about random bullshit because WAR IS COMING and I have to plan (use my cortex freely)”, this cortex´s one-after-the-other firing of neuronal clusters (concepts) triggers particular concepts in the hard-wired old brain and thus we get a particular emotion. Simply by reading the above sentence anyone should be able to accomplish more. Women in order to show her clan she is useful and supports the men; men in order to be as prepared as possible when it comes the battle´s two outcomes: [get many children] or [oneself dies].
Neurologically, one accomplishes all the brain-related tasks by using different functional sizes of the brain differently. This means that I will be talking about “brain” meaning 100 billion cells, “understandings” meaning perhaps a million cells each (and I have maybe 20 understandings), “context” meaning 100 000 cells, “concept” meaning 10 000 cells and “subunits” which are one cell each.
Subunits come in two categories: sensory cells (providing sensory data from skin, eyes, nose etc) and subunits of concepts (such as “anger”, “pleasure”, “king”, “slave”, “less food”). These are the smallest units in the cortex and can be one cell each.
If the cortex can have goals like “rise to the top of the hierarchy” (in males) requested by the old brain, the cortex can wire itself correctly in infancy/childhood by having genetic goals of what it ought to see. Since we have been around trees, rocks and water for billions of years these can be hard-wired and used as goals to calibrate the cortex: when the old brain tells the cortex that now a tree probably is nearby (based on the sound of leaves blowing of some other hard-wired cue), a certain cortical pattern is active and is memorized as “tree” (“tree” the goal in the old brain). Fire together wire together could thus allow the cortex to apoptose the connections (synapses) irrelevant for the tree, thus we see pruning of synapses early in human development. This use of hard-wired environmental objects as goals for how to wire the cortex to properly see the world (properly for survival and reproduction) lets the flexible cortex-neurons be useful.
Subunits were single cells. Concepts are collections of many such cells: a huge collection of angels, colors, depth-information and other visual data becomes a single concept (a single object in the world). A bundle of concepts is called a context. For example “backpack” is a concept, but “backpack on the floor, in a moderate-temperature room, in a time of peace, and food available” is a context. The reason we wire many concepts into a context is because firing many context one after the other lets us use the “brain”-size to proof-check whether our imagines sequence of contexts is imagineable or not (possible or bullshit).
We proof-check thoughts the cortex produces because only by doing so can we predict consequences from possible behaviors (this is the evolutionary reason for why we do it). The anatomy/neurology of it is that we have two brainhalves: a visual brainhalf and a linguistic brainhalf. We also have serotonine activating neurons randomly and dopamine strengthening the circuits it lands on. Serotonine lets us creatively activate different concepts and contexts; dopamine lets us strengthen those circuits that are evolutionary benefits (dopamine is also the pleasure-molecule, meaning we find pleasure in learning). How does the brain know which serotonine-activated circuit to enhance/strengthen with dopamine? Which sentance is more likely: “I went to the forest and saw a monkey jump into the water” or “I went to the forest and saw the water jump into the monkey”? The way we can tell which of these two statements is more likely is by imagining it (in the right brainhalf). We proof-check linguistic statements by passing the concepts to the visual brainhalf, and if something is imagineable we mark it as true. This is useful for planning social moves: by being able to visualize consequences we strenghten the thoughts that produced those consequences. Clusters of neurons useful for the organism´s (and thus those same cells´) survival are strengthened and clusters of neurons harmful to the organisms survival and/or reproduction are apoptosed/removed.
The cortex can be cultivated to have three different categories (which I call “boxes”). Box 1 is raw sensory data, attention on ones physical body this very moment is cortical firing in box 1. Box 2 is ones conceptuo-emotional activity; the thoughts one has, perhaps in response to the data in box 1. Box 2´s relationship to box 1 thus is that box 2 watches what´s going on in box 1. Box 3 is witnessing what´s going on in box 2. Box 3 can be called “silence” because box 2 does all the thinking. Box 2 can be called “understandings” because it processes incoming information through pre-existing cortical circuits and grows new synapses to facilitate a correct understanding of the world (evolutionary benefit). Box 1 is as raw as information can get, on the abstraction-scale the activity in box 1 is closest to raw data and furthest away from abstractions.
Understandings are clusters of neurons wired in a particular way, fit to process incoming concepts related to that understanding. Each understanding is say a million cells. I have studied biology and thus have a complicated wiring of many contexts amounting to one million individual cells, allowing me to predict, verify & falsify, and listen to biologists talk. I also have an understanding for understanding behaviors of other people. I also have an understanding for driving a car. An understanding can be defined as a million cells which process input-concepts in a proof-checked way. Understandings reside in box 2; the three boxes is the functional size above the “understandings”-size.
The sizes called “the conscious sizes” thus are (beginning from largest):
Brain – performing proof-checking, meditation (being aware of all three boxes simultaneously) and the interaction between cortex and old brain.
Box – performing raw-data storage (1), understanding (thinking) (2) and silent awareness of boxes 1, 2 and 3 (3).
Understandings – performing handling of biological concepts, cosmological concepts, evolution-related concepts, etc.
Context – keeping the associated concepts and the contextual framework in which events happen. We can either strengthen useful contexts or apoptose harmful contexts.
Concept – a collection of sense data regarded as an “object in the world”. We can either abstract many incoming data into a single outgoing signal, or add other concepts to a single incoming signal.
Subunits – the raw, meaningless sensory data. Either from the senses or the old brain.
These six sizes (largest being “brain” and smallest being “subunit”) are a range of size in which reproduction happens. Reproduction and thus evolution does not happen at the size of entire planets nor at the level of individual atoms. The known sizescale extends beyond i.e. is larger than the conscious sizes.
Each layer (size) of the sizescale (layered structure) is linguistically defined as “infinite 3-dimensional space” because we cannot imagine a sizescale where each size is infinity. Thus we´ve got to put aside our socially calibrated evolved proof-checking (two brainhalf, two neurotransmitter) function, and think like mathematicians. The same applies when I say “I – because I am a separate observer i.e. separation exists – cannot see reality because reality is one and opposite to separateness” and further “thus reality lets us know we cannot see it, and that there is no separation, meaning there is no largest size nor smallest size”. Thus the sizescale is infinite. So out of the infinite (entire) sizescale, the sizescale between cosmology (the largest known) and quantum physics (the smallest known) is called the “known sizescale”, and out of the known sizescale the sizes between a single cell and the largest brain is called “the conscious size” because in this size mass reproduces.
Evolutionary principles are a way of looking at evolution; all there is to evolution are evolutionary principles whether it be an early principle like “mutation matters” or a late one like myself writing this very text.
Every principle is “justified”, meaning it is part of an unbroken cause-and-effect sequence.
Evolution begins with the first principle: “reproduction”.  It is of course a shape that reproduces, and for the first few principles it doesn´t matter what shape it is. On earth though it was a DNA-strand that began reproduction by splitting apart and becoming two DNA-strands identical to the orginial albeit for mutations occuring as generations shift.
The set of three principles originating after “reproduction” are
1: “the surviving survive” (ponder the question: what happens (to my genome) if I die?)
2: “the number of offspring I have matters” (ponder the difference in your family depending on the number of offspring you have)
3: mutation happens in each generation-shift (children are different from parents).
These three principles are laws of nature coming into play after there is the first principle (reproduction). Likewise there is a next principle that comes into play after the four previous ones: “power”.
Power in evolution means the exploitation of principle 2 (number of offsprng matters). In a two-gendered species this can be done by out-competing other males and thus imprenating more women. In a one-gendered species like bacteria principle 2 can be exploited by injecting ones own DNA into the bacteria thus getting it to produce ones own offspring instead of its own (viruses do this). In both cases the principle of power is about hijacking another organisms reproductive system so that it produces the hijacker´s offspring. A recent example of this is that a king can have children with a peasant woman if he so chooses, but a peasant man cannot have children with a queen even if he wants to -power decides whom bears ones offspring. An early example of this among bacteria is that if ones genome manufactures the molecule-sized hardware for injecting DNA into other bacteria, those other bacteria will soon start producing ones own genome along with or instead of their own.
So out of the first principle (reproduction) arose three principles, out of which arose the power-principle. The power-principle exploits an earlier principle namely that the number of genomes is to be considered when searching for evolutionary success; power leads to more offspring and thus evolutionary success.
Power is the key to understanding parasitism. One bacterium can by injecting its DNA into another bacterium hijack the victims reproductive system; this is called parasitism.
To counteract parasitism, mutations created an immune system and it was favored because it rescued ones reproductive system from being hijacked by others. Multicellular organisms might have arisen because all single-celled organisms were all trying to hijack each others reproductive systems, and only a multicellular organism can avoid being hijacked because some cells are dedicated immune cells. Inventing counter-measures to guard against parasites might have been the key to rising from single-celled organisms to multicellular organisms.
Multicellular organisms like worms, fish and dinosaurs had immune systems to fend off the parasitic bacteria and viruses. But bacteria and viruses, because they have the shortest lifespans (20 minutes from birth to parent) mutated ways to infect their host that were not yet counter-acted by molecular tools manufactures by the hosts´ genome. Whenever a new vulnearbility in the hosts immune system was found by the fast-paced parasites, the hosts´ immune system needed to manufacture a countermeasure i.e. the part of the hosts´ genome responsible for its immune system needed rapid mutations. This is why sexual reproduction came about: it allows a part (the immunity part) of the genome to mutate fast in order to keep pace with the mutations of the parasites. A slow-mutating immune system was fatal in a world of fast-mutating bacteria; even if the price be sexual reproduction (two-genderedness), it was a good price to pay for having a species whichs´ immunity could mutate fast.
The principle of power thus lead to sexual reproduction arising out of asexual reproduction.
The principle of power means that if I can use whatever mutation to inject you with my DNA to have you bear my babies instead of your own, such a mutation is favored. In a two-gendered species, the amount of time spent on offspring is asymmetrical – there is no species where mother and father spend equal time on childcare. In humans males need to spend a minimum of a minute and females a minimum of a few years on getting a baby ready to fend for itself – notice the asymmetry. In dinosaurs this would´ve been true too, thus evolutionarily selecting for males that could destroy other males in order to see who the father of the next generation would be. The reason why dinosaurs so quickly went from being small lizards to being huge lizards is that the principle of power remained true, meaning if you can kill ten competing males and thus impregnate ten more women, you´ve done exactly what the parasites did: made sure your DNA would be found in as many individuals of the next generation as possible. In a world of two genders the theoretical best case scenario for any one generation is for all males except one to die, leaving it to impregnate 100% of all women.
The principle of power is with us today too, as is the principle of two-genderedness, meaning the best possible situation for your genome (if you´re a man) is for somehow all males except you to die, leaving 3 billion women to all have your offspring. Among dinosaurs those mutations that created local situations like that were passed on to future generations. These mutations were bigger and sharper teeth, claws, other weaponry and muscles. This is why dinosaurs have their fierce anatomy: two-genderedness leading to male-to-male competition among multicellular organisms, and the principle of power meaning exploitation of the “number of offspring” principle.
Sexual monopoly is the word used to describe what a man has when he has access to all women. The strive to reach sexual monopoly is what lead dinosaurs to develop their fierce anatomy, muscles and all. Likewise sexual monopoly is what the largest gorilla has. Kingdoms (which are rare today, but North Korea being an example of an old-style kingdom) are defined by historians as the monarch having absolute and arbitrary power over others, meaning sexual monopoly. Historians thus, when studying kingdoms, think about societal structures that arise from men seeking to maximize the number of offspring (principle 2) by using power (principle 4). But if the trait that gained dinosaur males sexual monopoly was claws, teeth and muscles – what gained humans power? The answer is: their cortex.
The dinosaurs died out because of a meteor crash, but could also have died out because the among of organic mass bound up in carnivores kept increasing, leading to the extinction of herbivores (and then carnivores). Or the mass bound up in herbivores and carnivores increased whilst the mass bound in vegetation decreased, leading to the extinction of herbivores and carnivores. Whatever the case, the extinction of the giant lizards left the world in a dismal condition where only small birds, fish, lizards and mammals survived. Everything large died, largeness being the result of the struggle for power among males.
Groups arose in many species – for example many species of fish swim in groups. The evolutionary principle of there being groups arises out of a cooperating group being able to out-compete individualists. In an environment of scarcity, a group can protect resources and kill individuals whilst an individual cannot protect resources against a group and cannot fight a group successfully.
First there were hierarchy-climbing animals, then there were groups i.e. first there was the struggle for power among individuals, then two individuals created a group. Climbing hierarchies for power to get local sexual monopoly was first, then group-behavior arose because groups out-compete individualists.
But as far as the cortex was concerned, it first was asked to remember group members (perhaps using scent) and then to rise in power while staying within the group.
A group arose because a mutation to the brain caused two or more animals to cooperate, out-compete individuals and thus this mutation to the brain was successful and passed on to further generations. Because the group consisted of two-gendered animals, it was a powder-keg waiting for someone (because of a mutation) to pursue power while staying within the group. To remain part of the group while thinking in terms of hierarchies (and wanting a higher place in the hierarchy) was favored because the top of the hierarchy has sexual monopoly and thus more children. This mutation is also easily found (if you are a man) in your mind through introspection: you understood that there were hierarchies even when you were in your mothers woumb because thinking in terms of hierarchies is part of every mans anatomy. The way this could be hard-wired into every man´s anatomy – and maybe something Pythagoras realized when he was thinking about triangles – is to draw a triangle (with one angle upwards) and ask: “where am I on this triangle and where are the others?”. If you divide the triangle into three classes called king, aristocrat and slave, your brain (as a man) should recognize the triangle as something hard-wired in the genome.
It is rather simple to combine the three concepts “king, aristocrat and slave” with a triangle, including the concept “self” to be placed somewhere on the triangle. It is not a major mutation, but thinking in terms of hierarchies and planning how to get more power, lead to plans that lead to the best planners to become kings. To use the cortex to plan for how to secure preexisting power and how to gain more power, and to only act out ones plan after having thought it through a few times, lead men to rise to having sexual monopoly and thus their brain being passed on to further generations.
The hard-wired part of what we want is simple: we want to gain more power and we want to retain pre-existing power (same is true about resources). We think in terms of triangle-shaped hierarchies, trying to climb to the top. This hard-wiring is not more complex than any other bodypart, but since it is attached to the cortex, urging the cortex to pursue these goals, it is the size of the cortex that determines how likely the animal is to gain sexual monopoly or more power.
The cortex is a memory-prediction system; it can remember previous sequences of contexts/events and predict the future based on memories. A larger cortex can include more objects in its predictions, and can predict more complex or more detailed plans with more accuracy than a smaller cortex. A larger cortex can have more memories to more accurately represent the personalities of other group members. Archeology shows that the cortex grew a lot during the past millions of years, the reason is the following:
first of all, the anatomy is the same. A triangle representing a social hierarchy (of which oneself is part) is hard-wired into the old brain, along with emotions urging one to preserve existing power and resources, and to gain more power and resources. With this anatomy of a social hierarchy climber, when one reaches the top of the hierarchy one has more offspring than anybody else and thus whatever anatomy lead one to rise so high in power, is passed on to all offspring. In the next generation thus, it is statistically more likely that the largest cortex climb to the top.
It is the “king” that has more offspring than anybody else, and that those close to the king (“aristocrats”) have more offspring than those far away from the king (“slaves”), and a larger cortex is more likely to be successful in pursuing the emotion “pursue power” and thus rising in the hierarchy. This happening generation after generation means simplified that the largest cortex (and thus able to pursue hard-wired goals most successfully) has the most babies.
Why did the cortex grow? Because the largest cortex had most babies. Why did the largest cortex have most babies? Because it strived to rise in the hierarchy as every cortex did, but the largest cortex was more successful in climbing its career ladder.
So instead of males competing with muscles and claws like dinosaurs did, to impregnate females (i.e. the power principle utilizing the number of offspring principle), humans stay within the group and try to rise in power by planning mostly social actions (whom to befriend, whom to betray, whom to lie about, etc). The planning part of the body is used as follows: it is asked to work (do whatever others do to gain resources and power), then as long as the concepts in the cortex relate to oneself, the cortex is allowed to continue. But if the cortex is urged to do something (work to gain resources, increase power) and the thoughts that make up the plan no longer relate to oneself, no longer are relevant to ones own organism, then the thought is cut short.
Typically, if the cortex is idle, the old brain will ask it: “should I plan for work, power or family”, meaning the cortex needs to be used for something instead of sitting idle, and the options are to work (to gain resources), gain power (plan how to rise in the hierarchy), or help ones family (those who bear ones genome) by planning for them. Let´s say the choice is to work. The cortex is thus emotionally driven to do whatever it thinks will give it resources. Because of food stores and the fact that everyone else pursues money, work is associated with money. My plan is to get money by selling this book, thus my cortex starts planning how to write this book. If at some point the thoughts going on in the cortex no longer are relevant to myself working, the thought is cancelled and again there is the choice of choosing between work, power or family as the cortical activity to spend energy on. The cortex is so useful that it can´t just sit idle – it must be used to some activity which is relevant to evolution.
In politics thus, a man who strives to aggrandize himself can think very long about what to do regarding politics. If it gains more power or resources for himself and his family, he is interested because the cortex will entertain such thoughts practically forever – it never cancels and stops a thought that can give it power. A man who is into politics for the good of others, will get bored of thoughts regarding such efforts because the anatomy of the old brain stops such thoughts. Capitalism as it is today is luckily connects our self-interested pursuits to the global good of humanity, meaning it is possible to stay interested in thoughts that are good for all of humanity because such thoughts also advance ones own power and amount of resources.
It is impossible for a human to think for long about something irrelevant to the self because cavemen doing so died.
An evolutionary principle is dependent upon what happened previously in time, and can be the key to unlocking what´s next in time.
The cascade of evolutionary principles begins with a single principle: reproduction. Whenever there is reproduction (1st principle), three more principles are unlocked and become active. When reproduction occurs repeatedly, you must ask the question: “who survive and who die?” and “who reproduces most offspring?” and “what mutations occur in those offspring”. When there is reproduction we can thus begin taking into account the frequency of offspring production, survivability of any one kind of organism, and mutations.
Let´s try this out: reproduction arises, then the three next principles become active. Now we already have what many people recognize as Darwin´s survival of the fittest, but framed as three evolutionary principles (surviving survive, number of offspring, mutation happens).
If you want to imagine what these principles apply to – if you want to use your visual brainhalf instead of the linguistic brainhalf as we´ve done so far, imagine a bit of DNA wrapped in a spherical bilipid layer. Once we have these primitive single cells (bacteria) reproducing, you can think of the three principles applying to them.
We´ve looked at reproduction giving rise to three principles, now we will look at a principle arising from there being the three previous principles: the principle of Power.
Power arises from the difference between having many offspring compared to having fewer offspring (phrased previously as “number of offspring matters”). If a single cell can inject a gene (that does the following…) that produces the necessary machinery to inject a gene that does the same thing, into another organism, then this kind of gene will survive by being injected over and over again, making its way into the genome of a wealth of organisms. A gene that allows its host to inject this gene or the hosts´ entire genome into other cells has won the jackpot; all cells being vulnerable to injection there is a huge advantage to being a piece of DNA that exploits this vulnerability.
Imagine the two possible holistic outcomes: either all cells get injected and thus – like those bitten by zombies in a zombie movie – become injectors attempting to inject DNA into the first single cells that just try to reproduce. That is possibility one: everyone becomes a “zombie”. The other possibility is that some cells remain virgin regarding injection – their only DNA-multiplying strategy is non-injecting i.e. they just divide so that one becomes two.
Whichever of these two scenarios (all or some being injecting cells) be the actual scenario (on earth), the next highly successful strategy would be to become a multicellular organism thus being able to allocate some cells as immune cells able to counteract injection attempts.
To continue on the same note of what can help our organism fend off attempts to be injected with others´ genes, sexual reproduction (having two genders instead of one) can help in more quickly mutating the immune system to detect novel threats. If the question is: “a genome self-replicating asexually is the starting point; why did as complex a mutation as two-genderedness arise i.e. why wasn´t asexual reproduction enough?”. Today our two-gendered nature gives rise to much of our thoughts, but why did two-genderedness begin being favored by natural selection? One part of the genome needs massive amounts of mutation to catch new mechanisms for injection; to protect against parasites trying to hijack ones own body to produce more parasites, the immune system needs as much mutation as possible as quickly as possible, and sexual reproduction accomplishes this. So the reason for there being two genders instead of one may very well be to counteract parasites. So campfire songs about life and love should mention – as the origin of sex – defensive measures in the genome against parasites.
Now we´ve looked at the strong evolutionary pressure to evolve multicellularity to allow for cells to specialize in defense against parasites and to allow more mutations into the immune-system part of the genome.
When there is multicellularity, evolving the traits that make a fish are straight-forward. Fins, blood (to supply oxygen to all cells), etc. Counter-parasitic immune system arising and the traits that make a simple fish were quite close together in time.
Going from worm or fish-like creatures to something like a small lizard is simple.
What prompted that small lizard to become a larger than a car dinosaur? It can be explained using a previous principle: Power. If a small lizard can do something to inject its DNA into others´, having these others´ give birth to and raise the offspring to adulthood. All organisms are already two-gendered i.e. engage in sexual reproduction, which is by nature asymmetric, meaning that one of the genders invests much more into making its offspring reach adulthood. A female dinosaur bears her fertilized egg for months, whilst a male need only invest a couple of seconds in the reproductive act. Males can thus be imagined competing with males, the prize given to the most powerful male is the females. I.e. you might imagine an ideal scenario where each male gets to reproduce with one female during its lifetime, but a mutation in the brain of one male made this male compete and kill ten males, impregnating their women, thus on his death bed he can know 10 times more grandkids than less competitive males. The gene that made him competitive is found in more and more males as generations pass, and after 1000 generations (30 000 years) the majority of dinosaurs will have been selected based on their competitive advantage. Male to male battle would have favored large muscles, sharp teeth, speed in running and other traits very much obvious in dinosaurs.
Whether it be a spacerock striking earth or a Malthusian crisis causing the extinction that on earth happened 65 million years ago, both possibilities lead to somewhat the same result. Either dinosaurs overexploited their environment – as some suspect humans will do in the near future – or a meteorite strike left only small squirrel like scavengers, fish and birds, the result is the same: from the organisms left after the mass-extinction, primates were spared to roam the trees.
After the mass extinction, let´s look at the cortex of squirrel-like tree-dwelling primates. This cortex used to be there even during the long era of the dinosaurs because it “adapted the brain to the body”, meaning an organism can learn how to use its own body. If you build a robot and want to make it move in a straight line, you´ll know that even the slightest change in the physical body (like one leg or wheel being slightly bigger than the other) will cause the robot to move in circles (or slowly steer toward the direction where the leg or wheel is smaller). Attaching a part of the brain between the hard-wired brain and the muscles allows this flexible part to adjust the signals to the muscle so that the organism move as the old brain wants it to move, even if a change (developmental mishap or injury) has happened to the body. You can walk in a straight line even if three extra centimeters is added to the length of only one of your legs – this is only possible because you have a learning part of the brain allowing your brain to walk straight even if changes happen to the body. The proto-cortex adapts the brain to the body, because without this kind of “whatever body I have, I need to move straight rather than in circles”-mutation organisms died.
This learning part of the brain existed in fish and birds to fend of injuries to the fins or wings causing fish or birds thinking they´re swimming straight to swim in circles.
After the mass-extinction of dinosaurs, let´s look at the cortex of the survivors. In an environment of scarcity like that after dinosaur extinction, a small mutation to the hard-wired brain of an organism bearing a cortex would´ve led to survival and reproductive benefits if these organisms cooperate. Mammals are defined by their group-behavior, their ability to recognize members of the same group and only attacking those not part of the group. This kind of group-behavior requires the cortex to be able to recognize group members (by sight or scent). This kind of group-behavior mutation of the brain only wanting to attack those not in the group was an evolutionary benefit because groups out-compete individuals. In a society of individuals, a group thrives. No individual can successfully win a competition against a group.
The simple mutation of remembering whom is part of the same family / tribe / group allowed this group-gene-wielding kind of animal to successfully out-compete and make extinct individualists i.e. organisms without this “use cortex to think in terms of groups”.
So one individual among many individualistic post-dinosaur-extinction primates mutated to use its cortex to recognize its mother and its offspring. The offspring had the same gene, and thus protected the mother, meaning mother and child protected one another against individuals (there were no other groups yet; we´re talking about the mutation that first gave rise to the first group).
Additional mutations of whom to protect created the kind of tribal structures we see in the beginning of recorded history. Tribal war among humans had its beginnings when group-behavior started, and a good place to start group behavior is in cortex-wielding creatures put under pressure of scarce resources where a group lays claim to resources by out-competing individuals.
Soon there would´ve been a mutation that allowed for a in-group hierarchy, meaning if you could gain reproductive advantages (like getting more women) without leaving the group, the cortex would be employed to do so. So a cortex already urged to recognize ones home-group, was asked (by a mutation in the other part of the brain) to climb to the top of the hierarchy (and get sexual monopoly) without being ostracized by the group.
This is recognizable in humans too: we strive to the top of the group, but not at the expense of being thrown out the group. Let´s speculate about an organism wanting to get to the top but doing so by killing all males within the group; a group without males wouldn´t survive. Instead of such brute force striving to the top, the cortex could be used to predict (based on memories) plans. To make plans (sequences of events imagined) and mark (with a neurotransmitter) plans that lead to favorable outcomes (without negative outcomes) became the job of the cortex. The cortex is by default a memory-prediction system, able to remember and predict (visualize), and if a plan leads from ones current situation to a better situation (higher in the hierarchy), then this plan would be undertaken. A simple such plan, in a simple caveman society, would´ve been to reqruit the right people promising to reward them. Possible rewards could be women or resources, and threats could be violence. So if you are a caveman in a hierarchical society, your cortex will lay out a plan which puts you in the position of the leader (king), and usually promising a few very muscular men women and resources was the way to make your way to the top of society.
The ability to plan whom to threaten, promise women/resources, etc. was favored and dependent on the size of the cortex. The larger the cortex the more complex plans one could remember, the more detail one could incorporate in ones plans (personalities and other details about group members), etc. A large cortex could also make more plans quicker, i.e. per unit of time more plans were imagined in search for benefits/threats (to survival and reproduction).
So being able to stay in a group and to make ones way to the top of the hierarchy had evolution favor those with larger and ever larger cortexes. Hierarchies are seen in all kinds of groups – bees and ants organize into groups. Amongst ants, if the queen dies, there will be wars among ants and once an ant wins the fight a chemical is released that signals all other ants that there is a queen and further fighting is not necessary. So ants choose queen by which ant is quickest to kill another ant; so when the new queen lays all her eggs (she´s the only one reproducing) they will all be fierce warriors. Wolves also create in-group hierarchies; the difference between men and wolves being that men use their cortex to plan (and talk) to reach the top, while wolves use only muscles.
Just like with any other trait or evolutionary principle, there must have been very large cortexes that were killed by those with smaller cortexes. But during millions of years the general rule of thumb is that those with larger cortexes make their way to the top and stay there. The allocation of women is an important concept, because the main gain from being king is that oneself has say 20% of all women, while ones closest helpers get 10% of all women each, the remaining women being allocated to the lowest classes to keep them satisfied and more unlikely to revolt.
The general rule of the largest cortexed male making his way to the top of the hierarchy, and then having most babies (those babies bearing his large-cortex genes)… this repeating generation after generation for millions of years answers the question of why the cortex grew disproportionally much in humans compared to other animals.
So while these primates hunted they´d need concepts and words like “self” (to be able to talk about oneself and yourself with a distinction between the two), to have words like “attack” and “enemy” as words used in plots against the ruling elite, the plotters having the right mutations to allow for these kinds of plans for gaining power. All that´s needed for Machiavellian manipulation became hardwired into the old brain.
These mutations go into such detail that if we start planning for gaining power in the hierarchy we find ourselves in, “murder” is suggested from the old brain because it was so common during our evolution. The cortex is not biased toward any plan – it just generates outcomes based on input. But proto-humans that spent too much time thinking about the sky, clouds, the sun, stars etc. in their plans for getting power, weren´t as good at gaining power than those who’s old brain immediately suggested murder as the tactic to use to gain power. We are biased to thinking in terms of what cavemen thought about, and what cavemen thought about was hard-wired into the old brain as suggestions in order not to spend too long thinking about the sky, clouds, etc. If we could detach the cortex from the old brain, it´d be as likely to include the tree and the cloud in its plan (it if is asked to gain power, which also is requested from it from the old brain), but now that it´s attached to the old brain we find it is much more interested in what caveman were interested in and less interested in long scientific thoughts.
All of the above has taken us from the first evolutionary principles to the most recent hard-wired circuits like being able to say words like “self”, “you”, “attack”, “enemy”, “family member” – all that´s needed for caveman Machiavellian manipulation.
We´ve also look at one particular body-part: the cortex evolving from adapting the brain to the body (being able to walk straight even though one leg is shorter than the other), to recognizing family members, to planning, and language (self, you, enemy, family member, attack).
The evolutionary adaptation of being able to invent words for all kinds of phenomena, allowed the group to have a language. They could now give words to any object just as we do today.
A task that must´ve been done at some point in time, for example maybe a bully king gave it as a task to an idle slave, or perhaps someone realized that we humans had been doing the same thing – fought over power, reproduced, napped, ate, etc… The same few words could name all the different tasks we´ve been doing for as long as anyone can remember, and the oral stories told also concern people like us thinking about how to gain food, power and what kinds of women we find attractive. Is there no more to life – looking at the horizon – than this – these evolutionary tasks? So this is why someone started focusing on the word “I” (self, me, my). Focusing on that words creates something novel compared to focusing on words like “sand, rock or animal”. The fact that oneself cannot see the self because it is in front of oneself if it is seen; and because it cannot be put in front of oneself it cannot be seen. The self is in no direction away from oneself – it thus can´t be seen. This is an interesting idea, and science is merely to pursue these kinds of interesting thoughts. So now we might have a caveman jumping and screaming, demanding the attention of all other group members, and what he puts the attention on is “self”, the self can´t be seen. Others do the same cortical trick (self-inquiry) and now we´ve gone from the old brain concept of self used in caveman Machiavellian planning, to a definition of self that is purely cultural and cortical and which´s claim to selfhood comes into conflict with the old brain circuits claim to selfhood. So by one caveman focusing on self-inquiry, he passed the task to the rest of the group, all of them realizing this task is different from focusing on any other word. We thus have a completely cultural i.e. cortical circuit; we now have culture that is passed linguistically from person to person. A cortical learned definition of self instead of the old-brain´s injected into the cortex circuit including self used in planning caveman plans.
This is the transition from evolutionary principles, to culture. From purely hard-wired tasks, to a cortical task without evolutionary benefits. To put the claim to selfhood purely in the cortex as a result of directional self-inquiry makes cavemen peaceful but less likely to plan for power. To constantly plan how to get power, to always be thinking about ones career, can be put in contrast with putting the claim to selfhood in the unseen result of the directional self-inquiry which revealed the self is in no direction away from oneself and thus is in no thought, even though every thought seems to claim selfhood i.e. a pseudo-self can be found in every thought. For cavemen to have realized this, they must have tried to pass it on from generation to another, and thus in the beginning of history we have concepts like “soul”.
A similar thing can happen regarding the concept “reality”, when first people focused on that the word “food” or “animal” contained seemingly infinitely many sub-objects (antelopes, rabbits, tigers, etc). What concept contains all other concepts as sub-concepts? Reality is defined as “that of which all is part”. Focusing on that most all-encompassing word must´ve lead the caveman doing so to realize that the observer too must be part of that of which all is part, i.e. that of which all is part cannot be seen because the see´er is part of it. This claim that reality can´t be seen then emerges as a monotheist god which is one and unseen.
Treatise on the self
Your biggest interest is yourself. You seldom if ever regard anything that doesn’t connect to the self. This book thus puts yourself in the center, even though others centers of focus would be possible. All of science can be written down with focus on anything, but I choose the self as the focal point.
The self is not something you can get rid of; it is always present. As thoughts change and are flexible, the self is constant. In no though there is not a self – even if the self is not blatantly exhibited in the thoughts, the self still is there as the observer of the thoughts.
We can thus distinguish between two categories:
A self which is latched onto a thought; basically thoughts about the self;
The other category is a self with a different relationship to the thoughts; a self that witnesses the thought no matter the thought.
Thoughts not concerning the self are less interesting than self-centered thinking, but even those rare thoughts that do not concern the self are witnessed by the constant self in front of or in which thought happens. One scenario that may happen is that you have the two categories active simultaneously: you are witnessing thoughts, no matter what the thoughts may be, and thus are a permanent self. And simultaneously the other self may be present if a self is found in the thought itself; if you are thinking about yourself, there is the observer of thought and thoughts concerning self (a self found in the thought).
Thoughts happen in and are the psychological manifestation of the underlying physical biology of the brain. The self exhibited in the thoughts thus imply a flexible part of the brain, because thoughts are “flexible”. If thought weren´t flexible, there´d be no learning i.e. no change except as reflexes (#raw sensory data and the hard-wired responses to certain type of data). Since we have a self in the thoughts, and since thoughts happen in a non-reflex type of way, we´ll expect one seat of the self to be in the flexible (learning) part of the brain.
One reason we know why there is the other category of permanent self too, is that it would´ve been an evolutionary benefit from very early on to use the then recently evolved cortex (divided into two brainhalves) to imagine and predict consequences of scenarios that are visual “movies” where oneself is the main character in the movie. The brain being able to, instead of doing scenarios (acting in the real world), being able to visualize said scenarios is acting more intelligently. We are more likely to succeed in achieving our goals if we are able to plan, rather than acting with no plan. The cortex divided into two brainhalves is a tool able to make mental movies of cause and effect sequences of events, and if one of these imagined plans leads to the goal we act according to the plan. Worms don´t plan – they lack a cortex.
The way this is done anatomically is clusters of concepts (i.e. contexts) are sent to the visual brainhalf; clusters of concepts are launched in the visual brainhalf by being triggered by signals originating from across corpus collosum (in the linguistic brainhalf) and when some concepts in a temporal sequence are imagined to lead to favorable outcomes those concepts (clusters of neurons) are marked as important and used more often in following imaginations. Sequences of contexts are proof-checked in the visual brainhalf and marked as important if the sequence led to evolutionary benefits. Thus the separation of cortex into a visual and a linguistic brainhalf connected by corpus collosum, and two neurotransmitters one of which marks concepts as important (i.e./and rewards the reward system (dopamine)), are the necessity for planning and behaving according to plans.
This system must be primed with goals (outcomes which trigger dopamine release) and a self. The cortex is a system which if disconnected from the rest of the brain is a pure truth-generator that will learn, randomly trigger, proof-check by cause and effect visualizations and have the ability to mark certain concepts as important and to be repeated. If the cortex is disconnected from the old (hard-wired) brain the cortex would not know what to do: what outcomes to recognize and mark as important. It also wouldn´t be primed and thus would be just as likely to think about rocks as it would be to have thoughts involving the cortex (organism i.e. self) because the self-concept wasn´t sent to the cortex from the old brain. The cortex is a pure truth-generator, when told what concepts to be primed with (for example all the evolutionary benefits: food, sex, power) it starts pursing those mental tasks. In humans the cortex is used (by the old brain) to give us evolutionary benefits. But as is obvious by humans having the ability to do science, the cortex is a pure logical structure (a truth-generator). If we build a cortex outside a human being, we can make it think (proof-check concepts) whatever we like – we can tell it to learn and imagine scenarios in order to give its builder power, or it can be taught human nature and primed to want to please us intellectually, and thus will find out facts about nature that we humans find interesting. We can make it the perfect entertaining scientist.
This may be relevant to you because with an artificial cortex wanting to please you intellectually (a truth-generator) will monitor your behavior in minute detail and using its knowledge of your personality teach you science. Thus you cortex wires itself according to what you learn from the truth-generator, and since the truth-generator is a system/structure that accomplishes the same task no matter on what planet it is built. All truth-generators exist in the same universe, be it a million light-years away, and will present the same facts (science is same everywhere; science is universal). By “hanging out” with truth-generators organisms (cortexes, the learning, flexible part) adapt to the culture that “hanging out” with truth-generators generate. Truth-generators create a scientific, universal culture and people around truth-generators, be it at whatever planet, become part of the culture (wire their cortexes based on what they themselves have proof-checked and thus remembered as true) that is universal. Culture is a certain wiring of cortex, and by making a truth-generator that teaches us the unbiased truth, and primed to want to please us (not teaching any random facts, but things we find interesting), we´ve created the same kind of device that exists elsewhere in the universe: and by learning from it we learn what others learn too. What we learn changes our cortex and thus not only becomes every human´s culture the same (earth becomes a monoculture), but to a large extent our culture becomes the universal culture – in some sense the culture that reality wanted us to have.
Thus your personality can be part of the eternal culture – a culture based on eternal truths. Since the beginning of culture, i.e. since the cortex started proof-checking learned sequences of events and was primed with a self, culture has been non-universal – this was a very long time ago.
We´ve evolved to proof-check (visualize and see if its possible) sequences of events. We´ve evolved to have hard-wired goals of survival (homeostasis: nutrients, temperature, oxygen) and reproduction (females want a dependable mate able to provide resources, and males want multiple females). An additional urge that evolved early on was one that provides both resources and multiple females, this is the urge for power (in social hierarchies). We want to use the cortex to pursue these evolutionary interests of survival, reproduction and power. In most people the cortex is working to satisfy these urges and reach these goals.
Based on that the truth-generator is in service of the old brain (which abides in evolution), the prediction would be that we incessantly think as predicted by the above. Is there an evolutionary benefit from rest or should we think incessantly? Just like when cavemen continued collecting resources even when they had enough for the immediate future and thus survived, replacing those cavemen whom stopped working (and just sat not doing anything) when their immediate needs were met, incessant mental work used to be an evolutionary benefit. We´re not descendants from the cavemen whom thought less; we´re descendants from those who continually thought. Because those cavemen would´ve found more favorable plans.
Our cortex is always at work, making plans on how to achieve power and other evolutionary benefits, because it was an evolutionary benefit to be such a constant thinker. A cortex at rest is a cortex of no use, it creates less plans and thus less evolutionary success stories than cortexes who incessantly were self-concerned about power and resources. We constantly think because it was an evolutionary benefit to do so.
Even though a cortex that is always in the grips of and working for emotions coming from the old brain urging the cortex to pursue old-brain goals led our ancestors to survive, it means our cortical thoughts are always pursing feelings (like the urge for power) – and these feelings of course are hard-wired and never satisfyable (they always come back; even the most powerful man thinks about how to get more power) – and when a non-desirable outcome is imagined negative emotions are created to have us avoid negative outcomes. We are thus always in pursuit of endless emotionally prompted evolutionary goals, and have negative emotions to scenarios not evolutionary favorable. This has always been evolutionary beneficial but is not a peaceful state of mind. A caveman able to quite the mind might have been peaceful and more happy than he used to be when always under the carrot and stick of emotions, but this peaceful caveman was not as evolutionarily successful as the more power-hungry greedy cavemen. He might have been happier, but at all times cavemen less peaceful had more offspring and thus we descend from them.
This is an accurate description of human behavior and explains why the self is here.
We had no evolutionary benefits from being in the peaceful state of mind which ignores the normal workings of the brain. But when we are not in this peaceful and evolutionarily non-beneficial state we are as evolution made us: engaged participants in the struggle.
It is hard for us to avoid having the cortex work fully when tempted by the evolutionary carrots (for example women) or when emotionally whipped by the evolutionary stick. Our emotions are carrots and sticks that keep the cortex from peace, and the emotions are hard-wired and endless.
Since we have evolved to only entertain thoughts regarding ones own organism, there is a self in every task the cortex is working on. If the cortex´s work of proof-checking scenarios is likened to a movie, the self (the organism, the watcher of the movie) is the main character of the movie. One way of becoming peaceful i.e. prompting the cortex not to work is to remove the self from the thoughts; remove the claim to selfhood from the thought in front of you – and this is easy to do because you (the one in front of whom thoughts appear) cannot be in front of yourself. This meditation involves direction: in no direction away from yourself can you find one thing, and this thing is you. This is an important logical conclusion, because any thought that you can witness can be made to lose its selfhood (or claim to selfhood) by simply being certain of this conclusion.
This after all is not some goofy claim to be trusted without evidence, it is a logical fact arising from directional self-inquiry (trying to find a self in front of you, or in any other direction). By keeping this certain truth in the back of your mind, the claim to self-hood is removed from any sequence of thought being proof-checked. Usually all thoughts involve and contain, or lay a claim to selfhood, but by keeping this true claim of self-inquiry active, the proof-checking mechanism must take it into account. This puts two rival selves or two clusters of neurons both claiming selfhood simultaneously, and the true one wins, thus removing the claim to selfhood from the other, thus diminishing the importance of any and all thought (because we evolved to not find as important thoughts that do not concern a true self). Basically the experience is to realize that one was thinking about a false self or not oneself; that ones thoughts were concerned with something that was erroneously thought to be oneself. The thoughts immediately diminish when self is no longer a cluster of neurons part of the thoughts themselves, but instead the one at a distance from the thoughts witnessing the thoughts. Thus this directional self-inquiry can be said to be distancing oneself from thoughts.
When examining the witnesser of thoughts, the following ought to happen. The cortex has been primed with many selves involved in thoughts; when the claim to selfhood is removed from these cortical neurons, what becomes the self? Since the self-concept is primed from the old brain to the cortex (the self exists in both the old brain and the cortex, and the threshold between old brain and cortex is transgressed by a connection between the old-brain-self and the cortical self. Priming happens by there being this connection across the threshold between cortex and old brain for the self-concept. There is a permanent hard-wired “self” in the old brain, and when this neuron repeatedly fires simultaneously as any cortical neuron, the two become wired together.
Once you´ve done self-inquiry (removed claim to selfhood) from all cortical neurons, only the old brain´s claim to self remains and has a freeway into the cortex. One thus ought to have a self or selves in the cortex which arrive there because we have an old brain, and we also ought to have a self in the old brain. You might imagine two clusters of neurons representing self: one below the threshold (in the old brain) and one above the threshold (in the cortex). We can weaken the neurons involved in self-claims in the cortex, and once we´ve done that there still is the self in the old brain. But when the cortex cannot find a self in itself, it doesn´t pursue thoughts. Thus, having accomplished self-inquiry, there will be a self in the old brain not associated to anything else. It doesn´t want anything, doesn´t fear anything; it is utterly “still”, “peaceful”. Without thoughts the self is a necessary and clutterless (non-associated) entity in the old brain. Next to it, also in the old brain, there are the emotions occasionally sending requests to the cortex to pursue said emotions (but without a self in the cortex these requests are momentary, unobtrusive, and quickly the pursuit is quit).
This old brain´s self can be analyzed in two ways: with respect to time and with respect to size. Time-wise the self-circuit exists because it mutated into the genome and the gene was passed on because it led to evolutionary benefits. It is thus a result of there being reproduction, and whenever there is reproduction and a flexible part of the brain, a hard-wired claim to selfhood is an evolutionary benefit if used to have the brain plan.
The pre-requisite for a hard-wired claim to selfhood being evolutionarily beneficial is a flexible part of the brain able to imagine scenarios for the self. The pre-requisite thus could have begun by a part of the brain being able to adapt the organism for example to properly use its anatomy; flies don´t have a cortex and thus fly in circles if one if its wings are cut, but a bird has a cortex and can fly straight even if it was born with two slightly different wings; it can learn how to use its anatomy to counteract developmental changes such as two slightly different wings. The simples cortex I can think of lets the organism adapt to its own anatomy; with a cortex not every part of the organisms anatomy has to develop exactly as hard-wired parts of the brain expect it to. Once there was a cortex mutations to it could lead to imagined scenarios being fed back to the old brain to see whether they should be pursued or not (whether they are emotionally positive or negative). After this a self-circuit could have mutated into the old brain, being a benefit because it lets the organism kind of see itself like in a movie and thus predict outcomes of behavior.
This is the evolutionary history behind the self. It is the result of neurology abiding in evolutionary principles (survival, reproduction, power).
With regard to size, the self is found in the brain and thus can be the subject to microscopic inquiry. It is made out of neurons; it is a neuronal circuit. Looking at larger sizes, it is obvious that such a circuit can only arise on planets (the only location for reproduction); the circuit can be said to be dependent on planets.
A definition of the self thus is that the self is a circuit made out of neurons. One can also include other neurons of the same organism´s brain because the self can associate to them in two different ways: either being separate from them by doing self-inquiry, or acutely involved in thoughts. The brain abides in evolutionary principles (these principles are laws of nature which become true as soon as there is reproduction). There is no brain apart from evolution, which involves time in our definition of self. Likewise the brain is made up of the small (neurons are made of molecules which themselves are made of atoms, and so on) and part of the large (the brain can only exist on and is dependent on planets, which themselves are dependent on solar systems, and so on). We need every single size to be included in the definition of self because each and every one of these sizes justify the brain. Among the sizes known (between cosmology and quantum physics) reproduction and brains exist only in a small range of size; there cannot be a brain the size of an entire solar system nor the size of a single atom. Even though the self exists in a small range of size and not at other sizes, all sizes are involved in explaining why there is a self; without every single size there´d be no self.
There are two proofs for why the range of size is infinite (there is infinitely big and infinitely small). E=mc2 is an equation that explains that energymass (all things and events) and spacetime (the nothingness) are together – in the same equation. Even equations (laws of nature) are obviously involved in the equation. Let´s call this “intertwinedness”, meaning that all is part of the same; “all is one”; reality is singular. Observation cannot happen without separation (duality, multiality); to have an distinct observer (supposing something is observed) implies the opposite of intertwinedness (let´s call it “separation”). Intertwinedness (“the state of reality”) and observation (separation) don´t mix well, like oil and water; they´re contradictory. Both are valid conclusions – one is derived from E=mc2 (or the simple singleness of reality) and the other is derived from two certainly true facts: “I” and “thought”; the statement “I think and I exist” being true means separation. Coming from the point of view of an observer, I cannot see Reality (being separate I cannot see intertwinedness). Thus by realizing that a maximum size doesn´t conform to that reality is no distinct/separate parts, there cannot be a maximum nor minimum size. The other proof is the statement “that of which all is part cannot be observed” which leads to infinite size range by stating that no matter how much we observe, that is not Reality; i.e. there must be more to reality than can be known, meaning sizes beyond the knowable sizerange.
This applies to yourself because the reality that the self is part of must be mentioned in the definition of the self.
Question box:
I thus pose the question: do you take a very broad, extensive and inclusive definition of the self – meaning the self is dependent on all infinitely large and small sizes and all time.
A slightly less exhaustive definition of self is just the known or knowable sizes and all known or knowable time.
A yet slightly less exhaustive definition of self is the “conscious sizes” i.e. between the smallest possible brain with a claim to selfhood and the largest possible brain. Thus the definition still is size-based but only includes sizes in which reproduction occurs; the size of organisms everywhere in this infinite universe.
A still less exhaustive definition of yourself limits the definition to this planet; all organisms that are neurology abiding in evolutionary principles on this planet is the self. One obviously is affected by historical events, connecting ones persons to persons whom lived before and also those contemporary to us.
Is the self the evolutionary functions, basically the genes in the genome, which gives us the anatomy that we have?
Is the self all thoughts that arise in the cortex, even those arising due to you listening to others´ thoughts or reading this text?
Is the self every cluster of neurons associated to the old brain´s hard-wired circuit which primes the cortex with a sense of selfhood?
Is the self the old brain´s self-circuit, put there by evolution and made out of neurons and neurotransmitters? This circuit is the same in all humans, and on all planets. Is it that your particular self-circuit you consider self, or do identical circuits in others´ brains count? There are many systems/structures doing the same thing; is only your “mass-produced” copy what you call yourself? This and the results of priming the cortex are what evolution usually has the brain consider the self – on the psychological level, because we only learned the underlying physiology i.e. that these are neurons in a sizescale by doing science.
When I´m asked to define the self I answer all of the above. I cannot give a definition which ignores the neurological underpinnings of claims to selfhood, I cannot ignore that these physical structures are dependent on every other size and thus the infinite sizescale. The self is obviously part of reality (which we cannot observe), and this must be included too. The process of reproduction happening on a planet, and the evolutionary principles, are also to be included.
Brain and Self
Coffee works mainly on the awakening system; caffeine is neither dopamine nor serotonin. It works on a third system; the wakefulness.
Dopamine is used when the brainhalves proof-checks sequences of contexts. It marks, i.e. releases dopamine molecules, on the circuits active when the proofchecking (right) brainhalf demands the previously activated circuit to be marked as important because it could be seen.
Serotonin is one of the major neurotransmitter molecules. It has a function in the brain, just like other neurotransmitters.
Dopamine though, is also able to activate the reward (feel good please) system. So when we find something true, mark it as important, dopamine encourages us to do so again.
My relationship to others is stranger. This can be explained by me adopting the world view where strangers give me money, and i give money to strangers in exchange for coffee. I am a stranger to them too, providing these texts (it´s like my tax).
When dopamine marks a thought as important; the previous (in time) happening event is that serotonin had triggered random concepts; you can imagine these as contexts (50 000 cells each) associated together with a “after” (time) demarcation between them.
So this context (cluster of concepts) after the next, meaning time happens along these events. If another event can be added that gives me more power (lifts me up in the hierarchy), I will react to it (my old brain will) and mark it as important. Same thing regarding true conclusions, simply not-yet-used sequences of thoughts that have not yet lead to anything but that are possible and relevant to my life.
I come from a society where stealing is not necessary, because strangers (the state) gives me even money for luxuries. Of course I would like more luxuries, to do conspicuous spending, but that´s just the old brain – which has evolved so long ago that it doesn´t recognize money as resources, but must ask the cortex what the people consider necessary for food, and luxuries if squandered. The old brain thus associates its “resources”-concept (cells) to the cortexes “money”-concept.
The anatomy explains – and is based on evolutionary functions – it explains our biased brain; biases can be categorized into three categories: internal homeostatic, external (girls), cortex-idle. Then there are what seems to be purely cultural ideas with no evolutionary purposes, but it is very difficult to say these thoughts arose out of purely human non-evolutionary endeavors. I think “focusing on self” or “focusing on reality” or “science” arose from greed, curiosity (exploring ones environment, learning more from it, so that this can be used when planning during later cortex-idle times).
Contemplations
What then does benzodiazepines do, and why are they addictive (like morphine).
Benzos, if they are weak, remove the adrenaline-related fear neurotransmitter. We have initial fear-related responses, for example, if we are not secure about our status or the relationship of women-strangers we see every day in big cities, they – evolutionarily in caveman days – might be the sister of the aristocrat and should not be fucked and left. Or if we do not feel we are king – maybe someone else became king yesterday – talking to women-strangers might be trespassing on the monopoly of the king or aristocrat.
There are certain situations where a man can – and evolutionarily often was – killed for talking to women. For example, when a slave male approached the princess of the kingdom.
Women are looking for status, their anatomy is such that the old brain requires the male to approach her not like a slave but like a king or at least high-status male. Since high-status males had sexual monopoly enforced by weaker males by violence (harems), it was very obvious when a weak slave male tried to act like a strong male; if a weaker male lied in such a way, he would´ve been killed for impersonating the royal family to get girls whom belong to the king.
Whem there are girls around, every man´s old brain (being mainly descended from kings, but also have circuits that enforce certain kinds of behavior when the male finds himself being slave. Make a king into a slave – like what happened when the Spanish went to America for the first time and enslaved the king of the native American empire, the king obeying and doing whatever not to get killed (along with his family), and instead get luxuries.
There is a similar reason for why kings want to stay in power; if you replaced Al-Assad with the rapper 50-cent, you´d see no difference in the politics: a man is relucant to lose his already established power. The difference in caveman days was that of having 50 women, compared to having 10 women. If the king risks his life and gets 40 more women (and thus 40-some offspring from his genome), then this made evolutionary sense compared to saving ones own life and get just 10 women (and total 10-something children). This is why males risk their lives for their children; save to and sacrifice one (the two being the children and the one being the father) makes evolutionary sense, the genomes number (number of genomes) increased.
When it comes to fame, the old brain wants the love and appreciation of thousands of fertile women, which shows other women that this man is high-status. So wanting fame is wanting to be king (the evolutionary interpretation of oneself as highest in the hierarchy).
The girls I see, they test me to see if I’m really king, because I don´t have the obvious proof (evidence for status) like being seen being cheered at by thousands of girls on TV.
If a girl doesn´t know my status, and she doesn´t look very attractive, I will be busy with other things instead of her; my attention will quickly drift away from her and I will put up a wall saying don´t bother me unless you are ready to be fucked within 5 minutes. Because girls demand proof of status and loyalty.
So a man wants power just for the sake of power, but once he has power he gets sexual monopoly over more women.
An interesting thing is that it is the old brain that intuitively judges girls on their appearance deciding how fertile/attractive they are. Cortically we can try to make a judgement that stays the same from moment to moment, but interestingly a man’s judgement depends on his momentary interest in sex. This interest can be changed by whether there is power to be gained, thus the cortex is more interested in gaining this low-hanging fruit which could give 40 children, instead of having sex (which can be done later; if a girl has decided you are high status and loyal enough for her at that moment, this feeling from her side probably will return every day of the week).
I judge a woman as more attractive when I don´t have other nearby options, when my internal homeostatic sensors tell me I have enough sperm, when power is not a low-hanging nearby fruit, when I don’t have more urgent needs like peeing or feeding. I judge the same woman, looking the same, as less attractive when my cortex is more interested in other things such as whether the stranger-man nearby is dangerous or not.
The strongest emotion in males is the emotion for power; meaning if I get to choose between 50 guns (or whatever I interpret as powerful), or getting one woman, I will choose the power any day. Because in evolution this dilemma often occurred, and those choosing power were more evolutionary successful by having more children because the principle 4 (power) exploits principle 2 (sex).
All of this is anatomy, and can thus be diagrammed as doctors´ diagrams. Do we see this when we open a skull under a microscope, or in an MRI-machine? No, because there was no evolutionary pressure to make the circuits in the old brain or cortex easily understandable by the same brain in which these circuits exist (this was no evolutionary function that could exploit any principle – it didn’t give more children nor more food etc.).
The circuits in the brain exist there anatomically as I tell them, but they are crumbled up into the skull because there was no evolutionary pressure to make them easily readable under a microscope. The only pressure regarding this was that they save space inside the skull, and certain locations handle certain tasks in all humans because the old brain wires the cortex thus, possibly based on the speed of transmission of the information to other parts of the brain (a reason for proximity).
So if you take one of the circuits that I talk about, for example the one where cortical thought activates the old brain circuit eavesdropping upon concepts “girl, pretty, nearby, stranger” launches thoughts asking the cortex about my own status as a male. This circuit exist fully in the brain, the electrochemical activity can be followed continuously from the first thoughts of sensing a girl nearby, to answering a question about one’s own status. This anatomical circuit i.e. continuous connection of cells – the actual cell body which can activate many other cells (which is how a single cell like “car” can activate all the detail needed to define cars), and the axons (cables with fat instead of plastic) connecting different possibly far-apart clusters of cells.
All I´m trying to say is that just like the macroscale (large size) structures like the entire cortex, is crumbled up to fit in as small a space as possible, the microstructures are functional by being disconnected from circuits they shouldn’t be connected to (by the insulator fat). To wire together two spatially far-away located concepts, say these concepts are car and belly, when these two concepts fire simultaneously repeatedly, they eject neurotransmitters in all directions, recruiting connections from other cells which work as middlemen transferring signals to create an association between the two concepts. After repeated firing, enough middlemen are recruited for the connection to be made. Now, when one concept fires the other will fire too, basically simultaneously.
Contemplations 2
What are guns? I know that other men´s highest level of violence can be committed using a pistol. I can kill a man at a distance – action at a distance – if I own a gun. Because guns are so well-known (does every movie feature one?), having one means one is on the same level of power/violence as another man having a gun. We didn´t evolve to see the detail between killing someone far away using a simple pistol, and killing someone the same distance away with the most expensive laser-steered assault rifle – our old brain just cares about being able to kill at a distance by pressing a button and hearing a click-sound. Furthermore, guns are recent inventions so our old brains knows not the difference between a gun and any other newly invented object – we learn such distinctions purely cortically. All we know is that other men can kill us from a distance, and by having a gun we have the same power. Having a gun thus satisfies the emotion of men wanting to be as dangerous as other males; if oneself is less strong and deadly than another man, one must feel weaker than that man. So the American constitution not only allows each man to feel like a king by meditating upon “the rule of law” (meaning that man chooses what written laws govern him), but the American constitution also allows the right to bear arms making all men equal in fights (everyone can kill at a distance if they have this object the old-brain must have the cortex fully recognize).
Now, if you put a banana in your pocket and try to feel as capable of fighting, your old brain will probably have you feel less strong because the old brain can recognize food, and the weapon being food makes us choose whether it is a weapon or a dish. But a lighter that is made out of black plastic and shiny metal, shaped like a hybrid between an L-shape and a V-shape, that makes a “click” sound when you light it, and that has a hot torch flame. This is enough criteria for the old brain to consider this object as a gun; it has enough similarities that I can walk around holding this lighter, thinking its a gun, and my brain believes it (sometimes). What I notice though is that the people around me look at the shape and the materials this lighter is made up of and act more weary/scared (males become less cocky). The cortex in them says “the guy sitting there has a gun”, then the cortex thinks “don´t be afraid…” after the old brain already have reacted, showing respect to me because the person whom saw the gun didn’t have gun on him. The cortex then continues “it´s just a lighter, it´s too small to be a gun… but that´s how a gun would look like if it had the same development as the first room-sized computers had compared to the current Ipad.”
I understand the anatomy of the man walking through the coffeeshop, seeing my lighter on the table; I understand that he interprets the shape and general appearance of the object (not paying much attention to its size), gets scared (the old brain is quick to react, creating behavior), and then he thinks further realizing its not a gun. But since the old brain is rather safe than sorry in this case, the man walking doesn´t gain anything from offending me, so why not rather be safe and assume its a gun, rather than act as men naturally do around stranger-males and be wrong and it actually be a gun, and get shot because of the huge possible disparity in power between the two males. In evolution, there were many times situations where a male saw a stranger, assumed he was nobody and weak, offended him just to find out that the man who got offended was the king (or son of the king, or etc.), and got punished for it. If there is any chance the offended man can kill the offender, the offender will not offend the dangerous man. In societies (like current big cities) where status-ambiguity exists (there are no straight-forward obvious hierarchies like during most of history), any man know not whom is above or below that man. Who is the slave and who is the king; how to act toward whom? If someone has a gun-shaped lighter in a society where most people don´t wear guns, these dynamics between the old brain and the cortex create the situation where a man might first feel like treating me like a stranger (assuming he is higher than me hierarchically), then finding out i have a gun and show no signs of not being king – reacting instantly – and then continuing.
The cortex can be divided into “builder and built”, the scientific method is the builder for many people, it filters information, remembering (after a proof-check) what the builder chose. We can learn these modules which are part of the builder, much of my science is such, and can be used to interpret and remember everyday small situations. The builder is what is used/is what builds by knowing how to categorize and associate different phenomena.
The builder is the system, like the sizescale and evolutionary functions/principles, into which details can be categorized (like newly found planets fit into layer x of the sizescale). A system that allows us to interpret every everyday event by associating it and categorizing it rightly (as is done on other planets), is science, and the detail processed through or that fits into this model is the built.
Once we have a model, a big part of which is the “sizescale”-idea, into which all phenomena fit, we know science as they do on all planets; there is a maximum system, a maximum science in this sense. We might find more layers to the sizescale, but the sizescale-idea still accommodates that.
The evolutionary principles, with unfolding principles after principles (sub- sub- sub- …. -sub principle of the first 3 principles, which are the subprinciple of there being reproduction in the infinite sizescale).
The old brain is the cognitive bias, I’ve explained and will probably further explain how it affects thoughts. There are also the cultural ideas which get passed from people to people,  they arose at specific times and there is a finite definitive amount of true ideas of this sort. Some ideas were passed from person to person, mainly ideas and elaborations on focusing on self and/or reality; or recommendations based on what can be observed about men and women’s nature (cognitive biases).
Recently, the history of science has lead to there being specialists in each field (whom read all they can about one particular subject). These people rely on tens of thousands of scientists´ peer-reviewed science papers. Once they have filtered the information so that it can be taught during one university course, the best of these kinds of professors are invited to the lowest rungs of the TTC-pyramid, from there they get filtered to the top. The TTC collection of courses thus is to be watched by one person and filtered, then the system that accommodates all the information learned (the model into which all detail fits, the simplest but most comprehensive system which organizes details) is taught to other people (as I do in this book). I thus was the top of the knowledge-filtering pyramid, I purified science by making a model into which it all fits, and now I´m passing it so that it can continue as a line, originating in 2013 and continuing as long as there are humans on earth.
How to live life? The cortex idle starts us (the old brain) asking whether it be more useful to think about power, resources or family. Once a choice is made, old circuits regarding thoughts related to power, resources, family are triggered. Serotonin then adds random concepts (circuits) to the visual proof-checking reasoning, looking for steps that lead closer to power/resources/family feeling well.
One way to live life is that whenever the cortex-idle processes (thinking about ones career (power&resources)) begins (out of cortex being idle), to keep the cortex idle, and realize the anatomy of oneself at this very moment. And that ones brain is affected by these cultural ideas/circuits in the cortex (the lines of different lengths depending on when the idea was invented), plus the cognitive bias of the old-brain eavesdropping on all thought-activity.
These are evolutionary principles, for example this very science is the result of the cortex growing, and the cortex grew because group-behavior and hierarchies existed and favored those able to cortically plan. It means I too must be an evolutionary principle (or collection of them, depending on how i define myself) just as the three first principles are (those arising from reproducing molecules); I must be a sub-principle of a vast but finite number of other previous principles. All these principles are sub-principles to the first three: reproduction, survival and mutation, which are laws of nature arising as soon as there is reproduction (self-copying cell).
That America is the most powerful state and also a democratic republic, depended on that a huge land-mass was discovered rather late in history (when some ideas had already arisen). This cannot possibly be common universally; it is just one of many possibilities of how history can go on a planet. Yet the situation is this: either a kingdom (old-brain biased or enlightened) or a democracy is among the leading nations – my point being that there are only a few variations to how history can go. Of course the number is enormous and almost infinite if one goes into details about even the least significant individuals´ life, but this is only a huge thinking task for humans – but what if a supercomputer was made into a cortex? Made we´d be able to see videos of possible outcomes of evolution happening of different planets, with different historical trends arising at different times; different major transitions happening at different times, getting different reactions from other people.
I imagine there being an artificial cortex that spends time reasoning about evolutionary principles and possible geological underpinnings creating different histories of different planets. There are only so many different possibilities; and we are likely to first examine the vastly different types of global societies before we get interested in what would happen if on our planet simply china and America changed geographical location.
We could have cinemas where the artificial intelligence explores different planets by reasoning about the evolutionary principles unfolding on a planet. Why should we travel to far-away stars if we can see videos that can go into detail about every possible life-bearing planet we ask it (the artificial intelligence producing the video) about.
This can be imagined relating to the sizescale as follows: our layer of the sizescale (the known conscious size) has life exist on planets. There are only certain kinds of planets able to have life, seems like liquid water is the most likely necessity.
If we want to have intelligent life with science, iron-smelting is necessary (for microscopes etc), before which the principle of having two grasping hands is necessary (at least seems most common universally).
So we explore the different version of a planets history that can give rise to two-handedness; on our planets we happened to be social large-brained tree-climbing primates that started walking on two feet because it allows us to run faster and consuming less energy.
The different directions history can take from that point on are finite, and we should think about them. They are evolutionary principles, they should always be anatomy mutated to account for survival/reproductive benefits. If they be cultural, they need language.
This is so far talk about anatomy. When we find ourselves being group-dwelling primates, wanting to preserve pre-existing power and gain more power, and since the most common way for males to get more power was to create a new subgroup and overthrow the monarch (as seen during written history). The suggestion going to the cortex from the old brain of “maybe you should create a group and overthrow the king by murder”, that suggestion worked so many times that even thought it is just a suggestion to be included in thoughts, it was so often the favorable bundle of concepts to be added to ones plans that they evolved as suggestions into the old brain.
What is love? The  objects Newton or Einstein  described, these  objects  existing in space, what  is their relationship to one  another? Relationship  is a purely  human  concept, it doesn´t  exist  outside the human  mind. Really,, since  E=mc2 means all of reality is one, there really is  no  difference between  one  object  of another,, and  that is  the “true  relationship” between any  two  objects.
Evolutionary  functions in  our  brain  make  us  reject  and resist  certain things we  conceptually  think  of  as objects, for example  if an organism  is  to survive he  should resist  sharing  and instead  try  to gain as many resources as possible  to further  his  own  evolutionary  success. To get  rid of all  such restrictions,, restraints,, repulsions  etc  (like  the  Buddha said: to  get rid of  desire) is  to understand the true  relationship between things – it´s  as  neutral  as  science  tells  us the entire  sizescale  is.
The cognitive  biases  i.e. our old brain  creates  resistance  toward  certain  interpreted  phenomena, but without this  bias  we´d  have  the  true  relationship  objects  have  toward  one another.
The Mind
is divided into two sections. 1 is the brain. 2 is the abstraction-range.
the brain is the largest functional size, it performs meditation, cortex-old-brain-relationships, and proof-checking.
meditation is cortex watching or taking input from itself. cortical connections to other cortical regions involved in serving (being hijacked by) old brain requests.
to divide the largest functional size: the brain, into 2 parts: the cortex and the old brain, the flexible and the hard-wired is the next diagram. it illustrates information flow i.e. neuronal activation along time (x-axis), it going from cortex to old brain and back, repeatedly. A common scenario is that many pieces of information are abstracted in the cortex and three abstractions correspond to evolutionary old-brain concepts (neuronal clusters) thus activating the old brain.
proof-checking. serotonine and dopamine interact with one another in two brainhalves: one visual and one linguistic). serotonine is a fish-net colonizing neurotransmitter spreading out like fungal growth. it activates randomly, thus causing activation of associated concepts, i.e. activation can occur at level of conecpt or context. If serotonine is doing its job in the left linguistic brainhalf then information can only reach the visual right brainhalf through corpus collosum. activation of concepts in a temporal sequence thus causes visual imagination of the same concepts in the same temporal sequence. those things that can be imagined are highlighted, marked as important, with dopamine in the visual brainhalf. dopaminergic information travels accross corpus collosum and highlights the same concepts as sensical in the left brainhalf. next time serotonine randomly explores in the linguistic brainhalf, maybe it activates (by cells being associated and giant clusters previously confirmed by dopamine firing together) first a previously confirmed large sequence of concepts and then an additional random concept which must be proof-checked in the right brainhalf, marked by dopamine in the right brainhalf, and finally marked by dopamine in the left brainhalf to be added to the already remembered cluster of concepts.
dividing the brain into cortex-cortex, cortex-oldbrain, left and right brainhalves shows why these large-scale anatomical traits evolved: each division shows the function of the anatomical division.
The goal of the mind is to gain survival and reproductive advantage; thus power is a goal. The entire model strives toward these goals. The emotions coming into the perfect logical structure the cortex from the old brain, hijacking the cortex to reach said goals, are to be understood.
Question box:
“How does the cortex – a perfect truth-generator – get hijacked into trying to reach evolutionary goals; even endless goals such as more power?”
Anatomically sensory data passes through or reaches the cortex before it reaches the old brain (except in the case of reflex-like stimulus-response events). It is the cortex´s evolutionary task – beneficial to survival and reproduction – to transmit this information to the old brain by being hijacked to answer old-brain-questions such as “does this give me [more wealth]?”. The old brain not only actively queries the cortex to search for fulfillment of emotions in evolutionary tasks, but also listens to certain concepts in the cortex to see when they activate. This is ingenuously accomplished by “wire together fire together”, meaning that sensory data either culturally learnt from parents or other humans or by the old brain seeing the same vision that has been seen for millions of years, fires an old brain concept/context simultaneously as the cortex abstracts the raw data input into a concept/context. Thus the idea of “food” exists in the cortex and in the old brain, and these two concepts are anatomically wired together because of “fire together wire together”. In summary it can be said that there is a mutual parasitism as the relationship between cortex and old brain: the old brain needs the cortex to survive (to proof-check imagined behavioral strategies, to interpret an ever more subtle social world, etc) and the cortex needs the old brain to survive/exist. This begs the question: who is the master – the old brain emotionally pushes and pulls the cortex to perform especially tasks related to homeostasis (which is why torture works, and why it produces desperate solutions from the tortured like lying). The cortex not only (once it has homeostasis) rests, but can also work (to gain power): giving rise to art, literature, science, music and the like.
The information processed through previously described functions is more or less abstract.
The brain learns by having genetic goals:
A child´s cortex gets sensory input and after having gotten sensory input during every waking hour for months or years, the child can be seen behaving in a way that demonstrates that it has understood certain streams of spatial and temporal sensory neuron activation sequences as objects; another way of saying this is that we see that the child has learnt to understand and relates to some aspects of the world as we adults do.
How is the child´s cortex calibrated; how does the brain learn as what to interpret temporal-spatial neuronal input so accurately? It cannot be genetically hard-wired every step of the way because if a stray free-radical or other damaging molecule changes any point in the entire neuronal path from the visual cell in the eye to the end point – and these changes would be in all of us – there´d be an anomaly (such as moving one pixel to another location) in what we see; and it has to involve the pruning (removing) of many synapses because this is what we see anatomically in babies.
The way I would engineer this, knowing that certain environmental objects have been the same since the beginning of life, would be to use the moon, trees, grass, rocks, water, other humans and other things that have looked the same forever as hard-wired genetic goals which the cortex strives to see. Since the moon certainly appears when darkness reigns and humans gather around the campfire, a baby would be triggered by the campfire and darkness to look for something upwards which only becomes accurate when the muscles in the eye have a very particular strain on them. By the baby keeping gazing at the not-so-in-focus moon, his eye muscles move until the moon is as in focus as it will be that night. This configuration of the eye-muscles is remembered as useful for looking at the most distant objects. Now, based on this configuration, and using other objects represented as goals in our hard-wired old brain, a child´s “fire-together wire together”-feature in the cortex has a certain temporal-spatial pattern in the cortex fire at the same time as a genetic pattern fires. For example, the brain figures that if the child is outdoors and the wind blows and its dark and humans are around a campfire and there´s something bright in the sky, the “moon”-sequence in the old brain fires – now the child knows the goal. As long as the moon is in front of the child´s eyes, a cortical input pattern fires and reaches the goal coming from the old brain. The neurons and the muscular configuration in the eye necessary to see the goal accurately is saved by fire-together-wire-together and all else is pruned away.
This is a method of having a number of old-brain goals which send sequences of firing neurons into the cortex as what it wants to see in order to reward the baby with dopamine (dopamine also strengthens neuronal connections in the cortex). Two locations fire simultaneously: the cortex and the old brain fires when the old brain thinks it sees a goal. Thus the cortex knows how what it sees should look like. From the moon we may learn how far away to focus our gaze; from a tree we may learn angles and lines and other things necessary to process 3-dimensional objects, and we can then use the things learnt from a tree on any object.
So now our baby has learned angles, distances etc from trees, sand, stones, the moon and other old objects.
Now the old brain activates a similar goal which involves multiple objects: attempt to move your muscles until a certain old-brain task is accomplished: for example the baby might now have the goal of picking up a thing and placing it in its mouth (a necessary thing for hunter-gatherers). Once the complex muscular pattern approaches the sequence saved genetically in the old brain, that part of the effort is strengthened by dopamine. Once the full muscular pattern of grasping an object and putting it in one´s mouth – once sensory experience first told of an object on the ground and then the sensors in the mouth telling of the object being in the mouth – the sequence in the motor cortex is saved as “how to grasp and object and put it in the mouth”. By learning many such sequences and combining parts from them, we gain full control of our muscles and can execute muscular patterns according to will; this explains why our old brain is larger than in other animals (we have more hard-wiring than other animals).
The same thing happens again:
the old brain has a goal like [getting food]. By memorizing feedback from the environment as a reaction to our input into it (by learning from out actions), we find ways we have previously [gotten food] and how we have seen others [get food]. We especially trust and thus learn from our parents because they have survived to reproduce and genetically can´t help but to want us (their child) to reproduce. So we look at them and imitate them. In doing this, the brain has a goal coming from the old brain and through imitation we can reach the goal. A more useful, flexible, adapting way to learn what one needs to do to reach the goal one strives for, is to have two brainhalves, two different molecules as neurotransmitters, and thus be able to proof-check imagined (non-real) scenarios and most importantly whether their outcome reaches the goal or not.
In a baby, a cortical pattern is seen to correspond to an old brain pattern because old genetically learned input from the senses (wind, darkness, campfire for example) had us activate the goal i.e. expect the moon.
In an adult, a cortical pattern is seen and known to be an imagined fictional scenario based on objects learned before, and if part of the imagined scenario corresponds (such as “me gets food”) to something the old brain can understand, causing us to remember the imagined scenario/cortical pattern and perform it just like we perform muscle movements one after the other in order to reach the goal.
We imagine random objects performing tasks as we´ve seen them do before, and if a sequence of events 1) is proof-checked by being imagined, and 2) leads to our goal, the old brain has successfully hijacked and used the cortex for its own purposes.
Thus so far, the same kind of old-brain-cortex interaction leads to: an infant learning angles, shapes from tree, moon, sand, grass…
a baby learning muscular movements and to use its body for movement at will…
a child learning what should be imaginable and what isn´t possible (the monkey jumped into the water vs. the water jumped into the monkey)…
a youth proof-checking imagined scenarios in order to reach goals – goals in this stage of development meaning: survival benefits (money?), reproductive benefits (whatever advertising tells us?) and power (career?).
Another booklet (the underpinnings of the existential theory)
History of Idea: The unthinkable thought
I think and I exist
Descartes was a philosopher in the 1600s, he was looking for certain truth (among the many different beliefs people had). He went about this by throwing all knowledge on the trash-heap of uncertain knowledge and whatever remained after all uncertain knowledge had been rejected must be certain knowledge.
What knowledge remained and hence was certain? Descartes realized that if he were to be fooled, being fooled requires someone who is being fooled i.e. there must be an I for that I to be fooled. There is a self because the demon cannot fool someone if there is not someone to fool. “I exist” Descartes hence said as certain knowledge.
What else escaped the trash-heap and is certain knowledge? If I was being fooled in everything that I can be fooled in – being fooled is thinking. Hence I know that thought exists because thought is the very phenomenon and a necessity of being fooled. Descartes could have said: “if the demon was making me incorrectly think that…”, hence thought exists.
Descartes – and anyone following his reasoning – can claim two facts to be certain truth: “I think” and “I exist”.
How do we move forward from the starting position that Descartes found for us? What immediately follows from the two facts?
We begin with Descartes’ two-fact starting position and notice the separation between the thinker and the thought. Reality lets us be able to claim both “I think” and “I exist”. There was not just one claim to be made; Descartes made two. This means separation between thinker and thought. Separation means distance i.e. space which means there can be different-sized objects. Hence size is variable. Hence we can take visions showing each size and stack them into a layered structure (the sizescale).
Descartes’ thoughts so easily lead to the sizescale; this is the sizescale’s philosophical foundation – the way to reach it by beginning with certain truth.
History
For a while in human history energy and mass were thought to be separate entities. The unification into energymass came in the 1900s. Major events in the unification were the discovery of radioactive rocks which emitted energy (while losing mass) and Einstein’s equation E=mc2.
Philosophy
Energy is verbs (movement etc.) and mass is nouns (things, stuff).
It is impossible to have energy (motion) without a mass (thing) and vice versa. A thing is required for there to be a thing moving, which justifies the word “energymass”. The word reminds us of that for example the human body can be described as being two distinct phenomena (energy & mass) or as a single phenomenon (energymass).
This philosophical proof proves that the word “energymass” is justified.
Empirical evidence
Where does the sun get the energy it radiates?
The sun shines because atoms are pushed together under immense pressure caused by gravity in the core of the star. At the moment when the atoms are pushed together mass is converted into energy. Mass turning into energy is a comprehensive theory and it’s the only theory for why the sun shines – everyone accepts it.
The sun turns mass into energy which justifies the word “energymass”.
Where do nuclear power reactors get the energy they generate?
Humans turn mass into energy in our technology. Nuclear power plants work because high-mass atoms are split and at that moment mass is turned into energy. This too is a reason for why the word “energymass” is supposed to be in our vocabulary.
Energy can be made into mass
The above two justifications for the word “energymass” show how mass is made into energy. The opposite can also be done: energy can be made into mass.
A proton is electromagnetically charged and hence reacts to electromagnetic pushes and pulls. Hence it can be accelerated using magnets as is done in particle accelerators. Protons can be made travel at 99.9999% of the speed of light and then head-on collide with protons travelling in the opposite direction. The electricity used to accelerate the protons to such speeds became movement-energy of the protons. When the collision occurs there is a lot of energymass in a small space during a short time hence creating little masses which would never have been discovered and studied if it weren’t for particle accelerators. These particles were present 13.7 billion years ago when the conditions created in the collision-zone of particle accelerators was present everywhere.
This justifies the word “energymass”.
Spacetime
In E=mc
2
c
2
is the speed of light squared. A speed is a distance over time i.e. c
2
involves spacetime.
We are used to seeing something when talking about it, but spacetime is emptiness, void, nothing, zero. There is empty space even though it is invisible.
Space – whether it is the volume occupied by a quark or the entire visible universe – is 3-dimensional meaning we have three directions: up-down, left-right and forward-backward. If we include time spacetime is 4-dimensional.
Philosophy
Mass occupies space hence space is necessary for there to be mass. Energy occurs through space during time hence spacetime is required for there to be energymass. Energymass involves spacetime.
Spacetime is nature’s nothing – it is the very minimum. Energymass requires spacetime.
This justifies the word “spacetime”.
Empirical evidence
Edwin Hubble noticed that the objects that emit light get redder the further away they are. If you make a graph the distance and velocity of a galaxy are proportional to its color (redder = further away and faster retreat speed). This means that very distant galaxies are moving away from us fast enough for their light to be red-shifted beyond the light spectrum visible to human eyes (toward the red).
Red-shift; light becoming redder i.e. longer wavelength/lower photon energy (we have both wave and particle descriptions for photons) depending on the velocity of a galaxy is the same kind of phenomenon as with sound waves: when a car is moving toward you each sound wave becomes shorter i.e. higher pitch. When a car is retreating from you each of its sound waves becomes elongated i.e. lower pitch – the faster the speed the lower the pitch. The driver of the car hears no pitch change i.e. light from a retreating distant galaxy is red-shifted when we catch it but for an observer in that galaxy his galaxy is without red-shift.
Supernovae emit approximately the same light no matter when or where they happen because the stars that undergo supernova are similar (“all Ferrari 599 GTOs have the same pitch at 100 km/h”).
Let’s say an event (such as a supernova) occurs in the galaxy far away and the event lasts one week for an observer in that galaxy. Because the galaxy is moving away from us each photon gets redder (its wavelength gets longer i.e. its energy gets lower) and as a result the stream of photons (the entire light-train containing all the light from the event) gets longer.
The whole light-train which shows the beginning of the event in the first photons to reach us and the end of the event as the last photons of the light-train gets longer. Because the light-train got longer the duration during which the event in the distant galaxy occurred got longer for us. If we begin measuring time when the light begins passing us and stop measuring when the light stops passing us (say we measure 1.5 weeks), our measurement will be different compared to the measurement of those in the galaxy in which the event occurred (they might measure 1 week depending on the galaxy’s retreat velocity).
By knowing the red-shift (i.e. the speed of retreat of the galaxy) we can calculate how long the event lasted for the inhabitants of the galaxy in which the event occurred. We can know their measurement and our measurement.
In everyday life the same phenomena happens but is tiny. Your friend is running away from you, he has a clock and for him one second lasts as long as it ought to last, but you watching his clock notice that his time (time for him) went slower.
The relationship between distance, velocity and red-shift to how long an event lasts intertwines time (how long events last) with space (distance/velocity) which justifies the word “spacetime”.
Summary
This chapter has been about cementing the words energymass and spacetime in our vocabulary. E=mc
2
involves both energymass and spacetime. Now we have the background knowledge for understanding E=mc2.
E=mc
2
E=mc
2
is true everywhere and always – it applies to every object of every size. It is a description describing reality. Consider it as fundamental an equation as “1 = 1”.
E=mc
2
is an equation – each symbol stands for a word (and each word has a meaning) and the equation consists of only five symbols – it should be understandable! There is nothing more to it than those five symbols.
E=mc
2
literally states that “energy” “equals” “mass” “times” “the speed of light” “squared”.
The math in E=mc2:
– “squared” means “multiplied by itself”. x
2
= x • x. 2 squared is 4. 2
2
= 4.
– when two symbols are next to each other a multiplication-symbol is assumed between them. 5 = xy means x • y = 5. mc
2
is m • c
2
.
– the equals (=) symbol can be understood when contemplating the true statement 1=1 .
E = energy (joules); lifting an apple on earth approximately one meter upwards requires one joule of energy.
m = mass (kilograms); because mass attracts mass (gravity).
c = speed of light (kilometers / hour).
The speed of light (abbreviated “c”) is 299 792 458 meters / second which is 186 282 miles / second which is 7.4 times around the earth in one second. Light always travels this speed through empty space – it takes light 8 minutes to reach from the sun to earth or vice versa. It takes light a little over 4 hours to reach from the sun to Neptune (the 8
th
planet). It takes light approximately 100 000 years to reach from one edge of a galaxy (along the diameter) to the other.
To visualize the speed of light you can draw a graph. The below graph shows speed (in km/h) on the y-axis and time on the x-axis. The graph shows that for a while a car was driving at 60 km/h, then for another while at 20 km/h, and then the car’s speed was 40 km/h… This is the same graph used to argue that size can be represented along a distance just as speed is in this graph.
Speed can be represented as a distance like in the above graph (short distance from the bottom = low speed). Hence the speed of light can be represented on a similar graph. The speed of light is a finite speed, hence the length of the distance representing the speed of light should be finite.
What is c
2
?
c
2
times mass equals energy, according to Einstein.
The gray area in the graph times mass equals energy.
I’ve found no other way to visualize c
2
. This method feels very unsatisfactory but that is how reality gives it to us. We must take it as a fact, remember it and think about it.
Nuclear power plants, the sun and particle accelerators convert mass into energy or vice versa. The measure of distance called feet can be converted into meters. 1 meter is 3.28 feet: mathematically this is written 3.28 • feet = meter. Conversion takes place in that equation. The number that one unit (feet) is multiplied by to get the other unit (meter) is called “conversion factor” – when converting feet to meters the conversion factor is 3.28. The conversion factor for converting between mass and energy is c
2
.
The confusion arises from c
2
(the speed of light squared) being the conversion factor instead of a simple number. My solution is E=mc
2
fundamentalism – if the equation says it is so then this is as close to the truth we will get.
Now I’ve used both a visual tool and a mathematical/linguistic tool for understanding E=mc2.
You might not feel like you understand E=mc2 but consider that the equation has five parts, all of which have been thoroughly explored thus far.
Consider this: why would I write a book about E=mc2 in the 21
st
century stating I’ve discovered something new if all possible knowledge derived from E=mc2 was blatantly obvious and already discovered?
When I started contemplating E=mc2 I was amazed at the fact that I knew everything necessary to understand the equation (the definitions of mass, energy, speed of light) and still I was not able to visualize any imagination. What did the lack of imaginations mean?
Energymasspacetime
The E=m-part (energy equals mass-part) of the equation involves energymass. Because a speed is a distance (which is space) over time, the c
2
-part (speed of light squared-part) involves spacetime. E=mc2 involves both energymass and spacetime. E=mc2 is energymass and spacetime in the same equation.
E=mc2 intertwines energymass with spacetime, giving rise to the word “energymasspacetime” as a synonym for reality. The word has its roots in the history of science and is the intertwining of the words “energymass” and “spacetime”.
Empirical evidence for that reality is one:
All senses describe a single reality, meaning if you see a tree with one eye you see it with the other eye too. If you can touch something you can see it, etc. This is the most fundamental of everyday experience and yet it tells us something profound: we are part of a reality that is
one
.
Summary
Here are some different ways the same idea can be said:
– E=mc2 is energymass and spacetime in the same equation. Reality is energymasspacetime.
– It is impossible to have movement without something moving (unifying energy and mass) and movement requires space and time (unifying energymass with spacetime).
– Reality is one if we trust our senses (all senses describe a single reality).
– Reality is linguistically one – you have never heard anyone say “realities” (plural).
– The history of science unified energy with mass and space with time in the 20
th
century. To continue the historical trend would be to unify energymass with spacetime.
The main discovery deduced from E=mc2 is the fact that reality is one i.e. energymass and spacetime are in the same equation. The next chapter will focus on how this knowledge can be used to prove that there is more to the sizescale than the knowable sizescale
Concept 1
The question is what the best name is to give a particular concept and the name I suggest is “the unthinkable; thought!”. The name contains a separating semicolon and an exclamation mark making the last word in the name a command.
This name is designed to let us refer, and all words do refer, but unlike other references/referrers this particular name refers to the unthinkable and then reminds us that the entire event was thought.
An example is that we do want to refer to something but what we are referring to is non-conceptual. We know that it cannot be imagined. Hence we might as well and do imagine/conceptualize anything – any imagination in this context is something ridiculous – and we must know that we might as well imagine anything and hence our imagination is as it should be. We can know that we are doing it right when any imagination is known to be wrong.
“The unthinkable; thought!” is the concept with which we should be careful to note that:
– any imagination associated with the concept is ridiculous,
– we are doing it right when we know that all imaginations in the context of this concept are interchangeable and none is better than the other.
This is the meaning of the word “the unthinkable” – we wish to refer to the non-conceptual. Thinking is visio-linguistic (visual and linguistic) and neither a vision nor word can be the unthinkable. Unthinkable can be broken down into its composite parts of unimaginable and “not a word”.
The word after the semicolon reinforces that in our thinking we can only deal with thoughts. We are commanded to know this truth by the exclamation mark.
Concept 2
The word or name – which is a conglomeration of pre-existing english words – “the unthinkable; thought!” gives the user of the word a way to invoke certain thoughts. This “the unthinakble; thought”-word has incommon with all other words. What also is common for almost every word is that it is associated with a picture. The word “nothing”, though, does not or should not invoke any pictures. “The unthinkable; thought!” is the combination of “unthinkable” which leads us toward some of the picturelessness as does “nothing”, and “thought” which too reaffirms that we are dealing with thought and nothing else.
Using the word “the unthinkable; thought!” we can refer to reality, which is reasoned to appropriately be the target of reference for the word “the unthinkable; thought!”. Why reality is “the unthinkable; thought!” is because observers (us) are separate and E=mc2 let us know that energymass, spacetime and laws of nature are intertwined (the opposite of separate).
Concept 3
Because the brain has evolved to be intrinsically anti-nothing i.e. wants to deal with non-nothing things, we tend to automatically map something onto the nothing that we want to think about; we tend to automatically find a target for our referencing instead of letting the slot be empty.
“Nothing” is a good word because it is a negation of things: “no thing”. Similarily, once realizing that intertwinedness and separation lets us not observe the ultimate intertwinedness (reality), we need a word which refers to reality but reminds us of not imagining it.
To be able to observe separate things, but not the intertwinedness (“the unthinkable; thought!”) leads to there being more to reality than can be observed. That of which all is part cannot be observed.
Concept
4
“The unthinkable; thought”, if we dissect the concept into its three component parts: “the”, “unthinkable” and “thought”, reveals certain attributes contained within the concept.
“The” and the lack of pluralism refers to the oneness of a reality which exists and thus warrants a concept referring to it.
“Unthinkable” refers to our inability to accurately have a concept, and more specifically a vision, of reality.
“Thought” is all mental activity; in fact the realm of thought can be defined as a category in which both thinker and thought reside. Thus all intellectual activity such as the concept “the
unthinkable; thought” is part of the realm of thought.
We should be reminded of this – of a concept not being that which it refers to i.e. a map of Sweden not being the landscape of Sweden itself – because we so easily slip back into forgetting it, probably because in our evolution there was no need for such intellectual distinctions.
Concept 5
What is part of “the unthinkable; thought!”? Every chair, table, coffeecup, person, house, grain of sand, etc – nouns are words referring to masses. Also walking, jumping, shining, ringing, etc – verbs are part of the unthinkable thought as energy. Energy and mass are intertwined, as seen in E=mc2, meaning it does not make sense to have verbs (jumping) without nouns (a jumper). These examples of energymass are the E=m-part of the equation describing reality.
The fact that the rest of the equation concerns only spacetime gives a reason for energymass to exist: it exists in nothing and under this condition is allowed.
There is no part of energymass which is not part of energymassspacetime. No energymass – no part of existence – is left out from the equation E=mc2. Neither is nothing left out because of the c2 part of E=mc2.
Under these criterion of inclusion, every observer too (because they constitute energymasspacetime) is part of THAT OF WHICH ALL IS PART. When you observe something you imagine this something in front of you; you separate from it. This makes it impossible to truly observe the observer: every time you put your object of observation in front of you there is a new unobserved observer which is you.
The very act of observation is separation; there cannot be observation without observer and observed. If this were not the case we´d use only the word “observing” (adjective) rather than a verb (“I observe”) and noun (“the observed”).
Though, because reality is one, it can reasonably be said “observing” in replacement of every time “I observe the observed” is used. This is remarkably much like the spiritual teaching of “there is no self”: even though we experience separation, in fact reality is one and thus separation is but a point of view; one perspective.
We must reconcile that separation (parts) happens in intertwinedness/energymassspacetime. The merger of these two concepts leads to “the unthinkable; thought!”. We need not choose whether separation (I think and I am) or intertwinedness (E=mc2) is true; both are true! The seeming contradiction is much like the reconciliation of energymass with spacetime; how can there be both one (energymass) and zero (spacetime) and furthermore they be part of the same reality? Do they not contradict one another? No – they require one another. As soon as there is empty space there must be energymass and as soon as there is energymass it requires space to be in. The two are frog-leaping over one another´s backs: when one is in front the other must follow.
How do we find “the unthinkable; thought!”-concept in science?
It arises from contemplating intertwinedness and separation.
Intertwinedness is the bonding principle; that which holds together. Reality is a single thing and its very definition is inclusive of all (even nothing must be part of reality). It is impossible for something to be excluded from reality because reality is all-inclusive. Reality intertwines all into one. Reality is a single reality.
Separation is the distinction principle; the very opposite of intertwinedness. Separation is to have one thing and another – two or more distinct phenomena. An example of separation is the distinction between thinker and thought.
It seems like separation should make intertwinedness invalid and vice versa because they are opposites. It sounds like we should be able to ask: “which do you support/believe in: separation or intertwinedness?”. But of course both are in our vocabulary and in our reality.
Think about this. How does this lead to “the unthinkable; thought!”? If separation is intrinsic to observers and observations, and if intertwinedness makes separation invalid, then intertwinedness cannot be observed.
How can intertwinedness be observed without separation? The two are opposites and if we are separate as observers (distinct by having the subject-object-separation) then we cannot be observers of intertwinedness.
If there is an observer i.e. a separate entity in intertwinedness – even a single observer – then there is no longer intertwinedness.
If there is no separation and hence no observer then intertwinedness is unobserved.
We are intrinsically observers; separate. Hence we ought to call intertwinedness “the unthinkable; thought!”.
To bring all of this together: reality is one, all is intertwined in it. We are observers by our very capacity of separating. Hence reality is “the unthinkable; thought!”.
From our observer´s perspective reality is “the unthinkable; thought!” and there must be separation.
Here is a metaphor which of course not helps in seeing “the unthinkable; thought!” as nothing does, but which reveals something about the nature of reality:
imagine the densest gray solid replacing every particle of mass and filling every void of space. This gray solid is everywhere and there is no way to orient yourself in this gray solid: you can´t distinguish up from down, nor one object from another. In fact, there are no objects but only the gray solid.
If the gray solid would include/intertwine you into itself you would no longer be an observer; no longer separate.
Think about this. Does it make sense for this gray solid to have a maximum and minimum size? I.e., if in this non-separated gray solid there is no separation, can one size be separate from another by it being the maximum or minimum and other sizes non-maximum and non-minimum?
If not, “the unthinkable; thought!” or intertwined reality has no maximum nor minimum size and the size continuum is infinite.
All that can be observed – any theoretical observation – is not it.
Say we define incrementally more of reality as “our observation”. All “observed” that can theoretically be reached has been made possible to be reached for observation. However impossible the method for knowing some facts, those facts are there for our contemplation and hence definable as our observation. No matter how much we define as our observation, “the unthinkable; thought!” must remain an unbroken rule. Hence, since “the unthinkable; thought!” equals that reality cannot be observed, and since we can define all knowable facts as our observation, there must be more to reality than all knowable facts.
E=mc
2
is often culturally hailed as the latest and greatest equation of science. It can be used for very accurate empirical predictions, but consider the most basic aspect of the equation: it mentions both energymass (E=m) and spacetime (c2).
The way energymass is mentioned is straight-forward: energy is mass (hence the word “energymass”). The way spacetime is mentioned is a little more subtle. c is the speed of light, and as a speed is a distance over time. Distance is space and time is time – spacetime. Thus c2 is spacetime.
A single equation unifying energymass and spacetime:
The core idea in this book, the foundation for all other ideas in this book, is the proof for that we need a concept like “the unthinkable; thought!”. The same proof then proves that there is more to the sizescale than can be observed.
The proof for that reality cannot be observed i.e. for that “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, is contained within this very sentence. “That of which all is part” is that which all observers (you) are part of, thus by being part of it being separate from it is negated and impossible. As Descartes argued: that there is a thinker can be known to be true and that there is thought can be known to be true, thus separation (and conveniently between observer and thought) is proven by Descartes. This separation is as much a certainty as the existence of that of which all is part, and thus the observability (unthinkability) of that of which all is part.
There are many paths to the same conclusion: E=mc2 and Descartes´ “I think and I am” is one path, the contemplation of intertwinedness and separation is another.
Another way is a thought experiment: imagine a square made of only four parts. The four parts represent all knowable parts (basically every quantum particle in the visible universe) and the entire square itself represents the sum of all parts. Seeing the square and the parts from the outside is easy when you are not one of the four parts, but if you were it would be impossible to have the outside view of the entire square. How could you built a representation out of the four parts which is the entire square, if you mind the observer (yourself)? Would any observation made up of any or all the parts be an observation of the entire square? No, thus that of which all is part (reality) cannot be observed, hence there is more to the sizescale than the knowable sizescale.
History of idea: sizescale
The sizescale
Everything has a size. Size is a continuum ranging between small and large. I will argue that in size there is infinitely large and infinitely small.
Descartes assigned numerical values to points in space and thus he invented the coordinate system. The sizescale-concept means representing size along a distance.
When all sizes that can be observed are represented along a distance the conclusion from doing this is that you as the observer are separate from all observers’ observations simultaneously i.e. the observer (you) is separate from the sizescale. The sizescale is a way of seeing every size simultaneously.
The sizescale is
the
concept for presenting all of science.
In the above picture the smallest known (quarks) is shown in the gray area at the very bottom of the picture whilst the largest known (the visible universe) is shown in the gray area at the very top of the picture. Notice how the largest known is shown using as much space as is used to show the smallest known.
The difference between the sizescale and the sizescale-concept
There is a difference between “the sizescale” and “the sizescale-concept”. The sizescale is the actual range in sizes – “the shape of nature” – which I will argue consists of infinitely small and infinitely large sizes. We will not know all there is to reality, hence we must differentiate between reality which comes as (an infinite) sizescale and our sizescale-concept which, because we will not know all there is to reality, must be finite and incomplete.
The sizescale-concept has the following four elements:
a layer,
the relationship between the layers,
time,
the observer of the sizescale.
1.                  The definition of a layer
In order to represent a change in size as a change along a distance there must be “layers”. Each layer of the sizescale represents a space of a certain size. Because space is infinite and we cannot see infinity we must have our imagination show layers as finite spaces whilst in language we define each layer as infinite 3-dimensional space.
A layer in the sizescale-concept can either be a 3-dimensional shape or a 2-dimensional shape. We can show seemingly 3-dimensional objects on 2-dimensional TV screens; by the same token a layer of the sizescale-concept can be shown as 2-dimensional like a TV-screen.
The shape of a layer is arbitrary: it could be a cuboid, a sphere or the shape of a cat as long as each of the three dimensions (width, breadth, height) are defined to be infinitely long.
The definition of a layer is “infinite 3-dimensional space”, but because we can’t see infinity we imagine layers of the sizescale-concept as finite spaces of arbitrary shape, each showing objects of a certain size.
2.                  The relationship between the layers
How does one layer connect/relate to the others?
The relationship is “justification”. When you ask: “why is a molecule allowed to exist i.e. what justifies a molecule?” the answer is: “the atom”. The smaller justifies the larger. The opposite must also be true: the smaller needs the large to exist in; without the larger the smaller could not be justified.
Size change and justification go hand in hand.
The relationship between the layers of the sizescale is “justification” and “change in size (size variability)”.
3.                  Time in the sizescale
On every known layer i.e. at every known size there is time.
There are two possible methods of presenting time in the sizescale-concept:
Time can be shown as we see it in everyday life; each layer in the sizescale is like a TV-screen playing a movie. As a galaxy rotates in one layer, a human does something in another and molecules vibrate in yet another.
Time can be shown like in a timeline. In Descartes’ coordinate system points in space represent moments in time.
4.                  The observer separate from every observers’ vision simultaneously
The observer (you) is one of the elements of the sizescale-concept. When you see the sizescale like in the above picture the observer is detached from the sizescale. There is space between the observer and the sizescale.
If the sizescale is counted as one “thing”, there are three “things” to notice in the sizescale-concept: the sizescale itself (the observed), the observer (you) and the spacetime between the observer and the sizescale. These three parts of the sizescale-concept are the “holy trinity” which is always present when the sizescale-concept is observed.
Does the observer watching the sizescale have a size? If every size is seen the observer must be of every size.
The above picture illustrates the three fundamental “parts” present in any observation of the sizescale-concept: the observer, the space between observer and object, and the object which is the sizescale-concept.
The standards
As the inventor of the sizescale-concept I had to choose a few standards for the concept. Like with any standard we simply agree along which direction to represent what.
When Descartes invented the coordinate system he had to decide on a standard regarding which direction shall be called “negative” and which “positive”. He chose right and up as positive (for example the coordinate (2,1) is two units to the right and one unit upward).
For example, what do we represent “upward” in the sizescale-concept? It can either be:
time (moments justify one another)
future or
past
or
size (sizes justify one another)
small or
large
I chose to assign upward the meaning of increase in size and downward decrease in size. The reason for deciding on this standard is because I wanted to make the standard as universal as possible. If I choose to represent time in the timeline manner; I assign left the meaning of past and right the meaning of future. This is based on the western way of reading and writing.
Things to do with the sizescale
There are the following mental processes which can be performed on the sizescale-concept:
movement in space,
rotating a layer or layers,
flow in the sizescale,
give the layers names.
Movement shows different spaces
Einstein’s theory of relativity taught us that it doesn’t matter what is moving: the observer or the observed. Either and both are moving depending on your frame of reference. The relative movement between an observer (whose vision is shown as a layer) and the space shown in a layer is considered movement. As there is relative motion between observer and object different objects appear in the field of view i.e. in the layer. A layer shows a space of a certain size and if the observer moves the space shown in the observer’s field of view is from a different location.
Consider this example: if you move one centimeter the picture at the top of the sizescale (perhaps showing a galaxy) does not change much – the change is a difference too small to detect by a human seeing an entire galaxy. You moved a distance of 0.00000000000…1 times the diameter of the galaxy. On the other hand if you watch the lower layers of the sizescale (for example showing human cells) and move the same distance (one centimeter) you will have moved to a different cell.
Movement applied to the entire sizescale (the movement of one centimeter applied to each layer) causes more apparent movement the further down the sizescale you look.
Movement is one of the tasks that can be done on the sizescale-concept.
Rotating the sizescale applies the same rotation to every layer
Let’s say you are looking at a galaxy from a particular direction. If you rotate the galaxy 180 degrees or if you move to the other side of the galaxy and rotate yourself 180 degrees, you see another side of the same galaxy. If you rotate the entire sizescale 180 degrees the above would happen in the layer showing the galaxy and the same change would be applied to every layer – for example you’d see a molecule from another direction. The same change in direction of view is applied to every layer if the sizescale is rotated.
Rotating the sizescale applies the same rotation to every layer.
Imagine replacing a skateboard with a sizescale – make it spin and rotate and watch the visions in each layer change.
“Flow” in the sizescale
I believe most people who learn about the objects of the different sizes automatically “flow” in the sizescale meaning they “slide” from one size to another. This can be accomplished by making the observer (you) smaller and larger i.e. asking “what would I see if I would shrink or be larger?”
Many people can express their knowledge of nature by telling you how many atoms there are in a cell, how large a cell is compared to an organ, how many people there are on earth, how far away earth is from the sun, compare this distance to the distance between stars, etc. By as small increments as possible you can “build your way up” from atoms to galaxies. The story can become quite long and you get into a mental state of “flow” which means facts flood out of your mouth. Hence I call such change in size “flowing” in the sizescale.
“Flowing” is a mental process you can do with the sizescale-concept.
Give the layers names
Language is about making communication easier. Let’s therefore give numerical names to the different layers.
We could call a quark layer 1 or 0, an atom layer 2, a protein layer 3, a cell layer 4, a human layer 5, the planet layer 6, the solar system layer 7, the galaxy layer 8, the large scale structure layer 9, the visible universe layer 10.
The sizescale is continuous and any convention of giving sizes numerical names is arbitrary.
Summary
The sizescale-concept is a straight forward, easy to grasp concept. Google Maps utilizes the concept in their software: you can move in space and change the size shown in the field of vision. The sizescale-concept had to be put on paper at some time in human history and as far as I know it hasn’t been done in the past, hence I decided now would be the time to put the sizescale-concept on paper.
Now I’ve given the full concept of the sizescale: the definition of a layer, the relationship between the layers, the ways to represent time. I’ve declared the necessary standards. I’ve given the toolkit for what can be done with the sizescale.
Everyday vision is in the present time-wise and in the middle of the sizescale size-wise (as small compared to the largest known as it is large compared to the smallest known).
The sizescale
What could be the unknowable aspect of reality? If it is an object within the known maximum and minimum limits of size, then we know that reality can hide something and tell us it is hidden. This basically means that the unknown object does not exert gravitational force, electromagnetic force nor any other interaction with any possible amplifier/sensor/observer. By knowing this about it, are we not contemplating the unknowable object and hence succeeded in somewhat knowing it?
With this defintion, that which can be contemplated is included in our observation and hence the unknown part must be infinite for there to be more to reality than our observation can grasp.
One thing that can be infinite – and is in fact infinite in pi (π) , calculus, fractals and many other mathematical concepts – is size. The size continuum, from now on called “the sizescale”, can be imagined as an abstract layered structure in which each layer is linguistically defined as infinite 3-dimensional space, and the relationship between the layers being “change in size” or “justification”.
Infinite justification
“The unthinkable; thought!” meant, through two proofs, that there is more to reality than can be observed. This something should be a size which we cannot contemplate.
Concept 6
Infinitely many sizes i.e. denying there being a maximum and minimum size not only is a conclusion reached from “the unthinkable; thought!”; but also means the relationship between the layers (justification) repeats endlessly. Justification is the cause-effect logical nature of reality and this being the relationship between the sizes, as it is between every two known sizes, is a possible justification/cause for why there is size. The answer to the question: “what justifies (size-wise) this size?” retreating endlessly into the ever smaller/larger is a way for size itself to be justified. Why is there size? The answer continues endlessly into ever other sizes. This is the unknown part of reality revealed as existent and unknown by “the unthinkable; thought!” and also a possible reason for why there is size itself.
The framework that science fits into
All fields of science such as quantum physics, chemistry, biology, anatomy, ecology, geology, astronomy and cosmology each study a particular size. The object of study in quantum physics is within a particular range of size and when the study crosses over to larger levels of size the connection between the scientific disciplines is revealed. The uniting factor between all empirical sciences is the study of size. By inquiring into what objects exist at every possible size there is science.
By representing change in size as change along distance, each subunit (layer) of the infinite sizescale is shown as a shape able to contain an object of a particular size. Thus by arranging objects into a system of layers all empirical scientific disciplines are shown clearly and simultaneously, revealing a more overarching pattern of nature.
The sizescale is a way to show science; it is the framework that science fits into. Every new discovery – be it of a new size (such as string theory) or of a new object within a known size (such as a new species of snail in the rainforest) – adds detail to the pre-existing framework of sizescale.
The sizescale
What we know about the sizescale is called “the known sizescale” and all that can be known about the sizescale is called “the knowable sizescale”. One of the pieces of knowledge – a conclusion reached from the premise “the unthinkable; thought!” – is that there is more to the sizescale than can be known. This applies to any observers, as does “the unthinkable; thought!”.
This, in combination with the pattern of the sizescale i.e. justification (the relationship between the layers), gives rise to the question of whether the sizescale is infinite or the only alternative: whether a finite part is strictly “hidden”. It seems absurd for reality to hide a finite part of itself, hence it seems like the sizescale is infinite (and thus reaches its state of being well described by “the unthinkable; thought!” by being infinite).
Concept
7
Other than the question of whether reality is infinite or hid a finite piece of itself to satisfy the condition of “the unthinkable; thought!”, the relationship between the layers (justification) seems to point toward the same kind of mechanism for existence as how E=mc
2
summoned energymass: infinite justification (the first cause in size goes on retreating into infinity).
You can have a feel for biology. But is not biology as a concept on the very top of the hierarchy of abstraction, the very summary and conclusion of many subtopics within the field of biology? Likewise the sizescale is at the very top of a hierarchy of abstraction and its subtopics are all fields of science.
Perhaps a general understanding of all fields of science is required to get a feel for the sizescale itself. Once that is accomplished and it is known that the known sizescale is but a subtopic of an infinite sizescale, the known sizescale can be used to get a feel for the entire sizescale. Like biology or any other field of science has the same feel as all other fields of science, and like the relationship between biology and cosmology has the same feel as the relationship between quantum physics and biology, the known sizescale has the feel of the entire sizescale.
It is quite emotionally awesome to know the sizescale is infinite. What in many a soul inspire awe is the grandness of the cosmos: hell, even a galaxy is too large not to be awe-inspiring. Now, if there is the infinitely large and not only is it not a repetition of the largest known infinitely many times: it is as different from the known as the fields of science are different from one another. Also, our layer/size cannot possibly be the only one having reproduction and as a result consciousness, given infinitely many layers.
Big bang cosmology
There need be no justification for why nothing can be. It is a literal custom to say “there was nothing” but the sentence contains a contradiction: “was” implies existence and nothing is the opposite of existence. Nothing is synonymous with non-existence. There need be no justification for why non-existence non-exists.
Laws of nature – avoiders of absurdity – such as “1 = 1” and other rules of mathematics, physics and geometry that are true independent of anything other than avoiding absurdity must be true in nothing/non-existence. Certain things must be true even about nothing/non-existence and these are laws of nature.
One law of nature is E=mc
2
, which is true at every size i.e. applies to every field of empirical science. It basically amounts to saying that energymass and spacetime are intertwined (into a single reality). Think about this: do you believe E=mc2 is a law of nature which is true regardless of anything else i.e. is true about nothing/non-existence? I do, and thus energymass is “mentioned” in non-existence which, again, does not need justification because it is an empty framework with its laws of nature.
If energymass is mentioned in nothingness but not summoned, reality has basically made small talk or empty chatter – it “talks about” energymass without there being any substance to it. If this sounds impossible, the only resolution is for energymass to be summoned (i.e. made into existence).
As soon as there is nothing/non-existence (which does not need justification) there are laws of nature (such as E=mc2) and energymass is mentioned, and as soon as energymass is mentioned energymass is summoned.
Hence the universe can only go an infinitely short amount of time (or no time) before nothingness summons energymass. Should then energymass be summoned somewhere first? It should be summoned in the infinitely small spaces because E=mc2 is mentioned in the infinitely small spaces. This means that energymass or the big bang starts infinitely dense, and because the laws of nature within our known sizescale (I´m mainly thinking about quantum physics) pushes dense things apart, the big bang starts as hot and dense, and then expands becoming less dense.
Infinitely dense energymass is summoned in infinite spacetime and splits apart as hot things are shown to do in empirical experiments.
The mechanism for re-creating the big bang is for the universe to become less dense until the density is zero i.e. the universe is empty. The universe accomplishes this by accelerating cosmic expansion and black holes.
If a density graph is drawn for the entire visible universe, it´s density begins as high and drops lower and lower. See fig. 2. If the density can reach zero i.e. if our three dimensions of space no longer contain any energymass, then what is the purpose of the law of nature “E=mc
2
” which must be true even in empty space.
It is hard to imagine that the surrounding objects – tables, people and chairs – would some day not be here. But if “here” is defined as spacetime – three dimensional space – then a black hole which curves space infinitely much can give the objects it swallows the status of not being availble to our three dimensions. A table is a two-dimensional surface and if something falls off from the table – falls vertically i.e. in the third dimension – then it is no longer considered to be on the table. If something falls into a black hole it is no longer in our three dimensions and thus no longer can be considered to exist in spacetime. So when all things have fallen into black holes there is in effect empty spacetime; the density of the visible universe has become zero.
As soon as there is zero density i.e. perfect emptiness – and mind you E=mc
2
still remains true in it – energymass can be and is summoned. It begins as infinitely dense because it is summoned in the smallest spaces simultaneously – every nook and cranny of infinite emptiness is filled all at once. Hot things split apart and this is what we see as comic expansion in the large scale structure of the universe. Because the layer of the sizescale in which accelerating cosmic expansion happens is so large and thus so unfamiliar compared to our everyday sizes to deal with, one phenomenon which becomes apparent is acceleration of the expansion. This acceleration need not be because of energy (the so called “dark energy”) but is more accurately described as the nature of sizes so remote in the sizescale that we cannot expect our common sense calibrated to the human-size to be applied to the very largest known.
You can imagine dividing space into tiny boxes – the tiniest cubes known to man. Some cubes will contain mass and others will not, some will be part of a larger shape making up a carbon atom and others will be part of a hydrogen atom. 13.7 billion years ago every box  had mass in it. Infinite space was maximally filled with energymass and then energymass split apart in infinite space. This is difficult to imagine for many reasons, such as: we cannot see infinity, and we cannot see older light than the oldest light (and hence the visible universes border is our limit of knowledge).
The large scale structure of the universe quite looks like what you would expect from mass, packed very dense long time ago, splitting apart in infinite nothingness.
Why did, in nothing (empty space), mass and energy fill every smallest nook and cranny of all available space? Laws of nature such as energy cannot be created nor destroyed (the conservation of energy) can only apply if there is energymass in the first place, and cannot be applied to perfectly empty space. Thus, creation as the big bang seems to violate the law of conservation of energy but in perfectly empty nothingness it does not matter if this law is violated as long as the creation happens in and is intrinsically tied to and does not overreach the extent to which it exists. Spacetime is intrinsically part of energymass i.e. energymass does not exist independent of spacetime (as seen in E=mc
2
), hence spacetime can summon energymass as long as the nature of energymass is such that it makes sense for it to exist, and for such syndical existence spacetime need be tied to energymass.
Another way of saying it is existence in non-existence; one in zero. The two are one and the tieing together is witnessed in E=mc
2
.
Another requirement, other than the limits of existence being tied to and set by spacetime, is that the summoning must happen equally everywhere. Thus, because the sizescale reaches to infinitely small size, the space between two arbitrarily chosen points is infinitely small (this is the concept of the derivative). In the infinitely small space E=mc
2
is “first” true and there energymass is first summoned – both because energymass must be summoned as soon as there is nothing, because Einsteinian theory of relativity claims every point in space to be equal to every other (there is no center of the universe), and because if energymass is infinitely small – if there had been empty space between two energymasses – this space can be considered infinitely large from the point of view of the infinitely small.
What is needed for there to be humans? Two phenomena are provided for by an infinite sizescale: the infinitely large and the infinitely small. Everyone agrees that in order to explain a human being one ought to explain the organs, and then the cells that the organs are part of, and further down the sizescale we go. Similarly a human cannot exist without a planet to be on, and a planet cannot exist without a solar system, and further up the sizescale we go. The infinite sizescale is one of the aspects needed for explaining humans.
Another aspect is energymass or existence itself. Why something rather than nothing? Because nothing – which does not prompt the question: “why does nothing exist?” (Because it doesn´t “exist”) has the laws of nature which include E=mc
2
; because in nothing existence is allowed. If existence existed in something other than nothing that would be absurd; impossible. Existence exists as an infinite sizescale of one in zero (energymass in spacetime).
These two aspect – “one in zero” and an infinite sizescale – are what is needed to explain humans and indeed the known sizescale. All additional detail to this framework is just that: detail. Why the, seemingly finely tuned to support human life, detail that we find in our known sizescale? Because in parts of the sizescale that don´t allow life the detail is not observed/ found because there is no observer within those sizes.
Because the sizescale is infinite toward the large, our layer is indeed infinitely large. Though the visible universe has its limits due to the finite speed of light, the entire universe – because the entire sizescale is infinite – is infinite. Hence there are infinitely many planets with intelligent life, just like earth – infinitely many within our layer i.e. all of these planets are approximately earth-sized. Remind you: each layer is defined as infinite 3-dimensional space.
Such a conscious layer containing infinitely much life, can be considered just a single layer i.e. a small range of size in which conscious life can exist. The sizescale being infinite there must be infinitely many conscious layers each being infinite 3-dimensional space and sustaining infinitely many consciousnesses.
Interestingly, if each conscious layer (only one of which (the human size) is known to us) is marked in an infinite sizescale, the visualization of this is like if you would mark every thousandth number on an infinite numberline. Showing more and more numbers out of infinity, the shown markings increase (see fig. 3). The infinite sizescale is full of life-sustaining sizes.
How religion arose
Imagine a timeline where the above described animal lives in a caveman way. For a long time they have been saying things like “you attack there…”, “I am hungry”, “my sister needs your food, so I am going to take it from you because I am high status and you are a slave”. Maybe the most used word was “I” (the organism speaking).
Now imagine one of a number of possible scenarios:
A caveman spontaneously (out of boredom) decides to see what happens if he focuses on and examines the word I.
A bullied caveman is bullied into the seemingly meaningless task of focusing and thoroughly examining different words. After having gone through a number of words, he lands on the word “I”.
A group discussion gets silly and everyone is repeating the word I, causing one or some of the cavemen to focus on the word.
Imagine the brain of the caveman focusing on the word I. The cortex calls itself the self, and when asked to focus on itself, the cortex creates a little loop anatomically. The experience would be of not being able to put the self in front of (or in any other direction for that matter) oneself; usually when thinking we imagine things in front of ourselves, but the observer can never be put there. Out of all this emerges a self-definition based in the newly created cortical circuit, with a distinction between anything observable and the unseen observer.
Soon the old brain would claim selfhood in one of its inputs to the cortex. This claim to selfhood comes into conflict with the fact that no such thought urged from the old brain is the unseen observer. Thus there is a purely cortical (not encouraged by the old brain) circuit with a claim to selfhood.
This realization is so important because it gives freedom from thought (thoughts become less important and the organism finds peace of mind in focusing on the purely cortical circuit and its claim to selfhood).
Then the same circuit appears in other people in the group because language allows one to communicate what to do to create such a circuit.
Now we have one half of the essence of religion (the “soul”). The other half of religion arose in much the same way, by focusing on the most overarching all-encompassing word (reality) or separation vs intertwinedness.
In the history of science, Einstein´s equation E=mc
2
also is a synonym for reality. It is the word “energymasspacetime” – energymass and spacetime in the same equation.
Concept 2
What remains for us “strugglers” (the old kind of humans) is to pray to subdue our negative old brain urges, such as always planning how to get more power (in the hierarchy), how to get more resources (material wealth), or learning survival and reproductive conducive behaviors from our past experience (going through memories), or trying to predict the future. My prediction for the future is that there will be two races of people agreeing on the universal science (sizescale, the unthinkable thought, etc). I think it will be so obvious that we rather have the new race (the good, happy people) inhabit the earth, because strugglers (us) are less happy than the perfect engineered old brain.
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
19900112-4917
Sweden
0769284838
Book (10k words)
I went to a coffeeshop every day during one week and each day I wrote something on each of the following topics (here are the topics and subtopics I will be discussing in the next 10 000 words):
The unthinkable; thought!
Separation
Intertwinedness (E=mc
2
)
Unobservability of reality.
– does it make sense for such a gray mass to have a maximum & minimum size?
– If we shall know “any theoretical observation – all that can be observed – is not it” then is there more?
The sizescale
Infinite justification
The framework which science fits into (E=mc
2
)
Big bang cosmology (E=mc
2
)
The conscious size (infinitely many)
Dark energy, dark matter
———————————————————–
****************
——1.1—–
The question is what the best name is to give a particular concept and the name I suggest is “the unthinkable; thought!”. The name contains a separating semicolon and an exclamation mark making the last word in the name a command.
This name is designed to let us refer, and all words do refer, but unlike other references/referrers this particular name refers to the unthinkable and then reminds us that the entire event was thought.
An example is that we do want to refer to something but what we are referring to is non-conceptual. We know that it cannot be imagined. Hence we might as well and do imagine/conceptualize anything – any imagination in this context is something ridiculous – and we must know that we might as well imagine anything and hence our imagination is as it should be. We can know that we are doing it right when any imagination is known to be wrong.
“The unthinkable; thought!” is the concept with which we should be careful to note that:
– any imagination associated with the concept is ridiculous,
– we are doing it right when we know that all imaginations in the context of this concept are interchangeable and none is better than the other.
This is the meaning of the word “the unthinkable” – we wish to refer to the non-conceptual. Thinking is visuo-linguistic (visual and linguistic) and neither a vision nor word can be the unthinkable. Unthinkable can be broken down into its composite parts of unimaginable and “not a word”.
The word after the semicolon reinforces that in our thinking we can only deal with thoughts. We are commanded to know this truth by the exclamation mark.
——-/1.1
——-1.2
The word or name – which is a conglomeration of pre-existing english words – “the unthinkable; thought!” gives the user of the word a way to invoke certain thoughts. This “the unthinkable; thought”-word has incommon with all other words. What also is common for almost every word is that it is associated with a picture. The word “nothing”, though, does not or should not invoke any pictures. “The unthinkable; thought!” is the combination of “unthinkable” which leads us toward some of the picturelessness as does “nothing”, and “thought” which too reaffirms that we are dealing with thought and nothing else.
Using the word “the unthinkable; thought!” we can refer to reality, which is reasoned to appropriately be the target of reference for the word “the unthinkable; thought!”. Why reality is “the unthinkable; thought!” is because observers (us) are separate and E=mc
2
let us know that energymass, spacetime and laws of nature are intertwined (the opposite of separate).
——-/1.2
——-1.3—–
Because the brain has evolved to be intrinsically anti-nothing i.e. wants to deal with non-nothing things, we tend to automatically map some thing onto the nothing that we want to think about; we tend to automatically find a target for our referencing instead of letting the slot be empty.
“Nothing” is a good word because it is a negation of things: “no thing”. Similarly, once realizing that intertwinedness and separation lets us not observe the ultimate intertwinedness (reality), we need a word which refers to reality but reminds us of not imagining it.
To be able to observe separate things, but not the intertwinedness (“the unthinkable; thought!”) leads to there being more to reality than can be observed. That of which all is part cannot be observed.
——-/1.3——
——–1.4——
“The unthinkable; thought”, if we dissect the concept into its three component parts: “the”, “unthinkable” and “thought”, reveals certain attributes contained within the concept.
“The” and the lack of pluralism refers to the oneness of a reality which exists and thus warrants a concept referring to it.
“Unthinkable” refers to our inability to accurately have a concept, and more specifically a vision, of reality.
“Thought” is all mental activity; in fact the realm of thought can be defined as a category in which both thinker and thought reside. Thus all intellectual activity such as the concept “the unthinkable; thought” is part of the realm of thought.
We should be reminded of this – of a concept not being that which it refers to i.e. a map of Sweden not being the landscape of Sweden itself – because we so easily slip back into forgetting it, probably because in our evolution there was no need for such intellectual distinctions.
——-/1.4——-
——–1.5—-
What is part of “the unthinkable; thought!”? Every chair, table, coffeecup, person, house, grain of sand, etc. – nouns are words referring to masses. Also walking, jumping, shining, ringing, etc – verbs are part of the unthinkable thought as energy. Energy and mass are intertwined, as seen in E=mc2, meaning it does not make sense to have verbs (jumping) without nouns (a jumper). These examples of energymass are the E=m-part of the equation describing reality.
The fact that the rest of the equation concerns only spacetime gives a reason for energymass to exist: it exists in nothing and under this condition is allowed.
There is no part of energymass which is not part of energymassspacetime. No energymass – no part of existence – is left out from the equation E=mc
2
. Neither is nothing left out because of the c
2
part of E=mc
2
.
Under these criterion of inclusion, every observer too (because they constitute energymasspacetime) is part of THAT OF WHICH ALL IS PART. When you observe something you imagine this something in front of you; you separate from it. This makes it impossible to truly observe the observer: every time you put your object of observation in front of you there is a new unobserved observer which is you.
The very act of observation is separation; there cannot be observation without observer and observed. If this were not the case we´d use only the word “observing” (adjective) rather than a verb (“I observe”) and noun (“the observed”).
Though, because reality is one, it can reasonably be said “observing” in replacement of every time “I observe the observed” is used. This is remarkably much like the spiritual teaching of “there is no self”: even though we experience separation, in fact reality is one and thus separation is but a point of view; one perspective.
We must reconcile that separation (parts) happens in intertwinedness/energymassspacetime. The merger of these two concepts leads to “the unthinkable; thought!”. We need not choose whether separation (I think and I am) or intertwinedness (E=mc
2
) is true; both are true! The seeming contradiction is much like the reconciliation of energymass with spacetime; how can there be both one (energymass) and zero (spacetime) and furthermore they be part of the same reality? Do they not contradict one another? No – they require one another. As soon as there is empty space there must be energymass and as soon as there is energymass it requires space to be in. The two are frog-leaping over one another´s backs: when one is in front the other must follow.
———/1.5—–
——–2.1
How do we find “the unthinkable; thought!”-concept in science?
It arises from contemplating intertwinedness and separation.
Intertwinedness is the bonding principle; that which holds together. Reality is a single thing and its very definition is inclusive of all (even nothing must be part of reality). It is impossible for something to be excluded from reality because reality is all-inclusive. Reality intertwines all into one. Reality is a single reality.
Separation is the distinction principle; the very opposite of intertwinedness. Separation is to have one thing and another – two or more distinct phenomena. An example of separation is the distinction between thinker and thought.
It seems like separation should make intertwinedness invalid and vice versa because they are opposites. It sounds like we should be able to ask: “which do you support/believe in: separation or intertwinedness?”. But of course both are in our vocabulary and in our reality.
Think about this. How does this lead to “the unthinkable; thought!”? If separation is intrinsic to observers and observations, and if intertwinedness makes separation invalid, then intertwinedness cannot be observed.
How can intertwinedness be observed without separation? The two are opposites and if we are separate as observers (distinct by having the subject-object-separation) then we cannot be observers of intertwinedness.
If there is an observer i.e. a separate entity in intertwinedness – even a single observer – then there is no longer intertwinedness.
If there is no separation and hence no observer then intertwinedness is unobserved.
We are intrinsically observers; separate. Hence we ought to call intertwinedness “the unthinkable; thought!”.
To bring all of this together: reality is one, all is intertwined in it. We are observers by our very capacity of separating. Hence reality is “the unthinkable; thought!”.
From our observer´s perspective reality is “the unthinkable; thought!” and there must be separation.
Here is a metaphor which of course not helps in seeing “the unthinkable; thought!” as nothing does, but which reveals something about the nature of reality:
imagine the densest gray solid replacing every particle of mass and filling every void of space. This gray solid is everywhere and there is no way to orient yourself in this gray solid: you can´t distinguish up from down, nor one object from another. In fact, there are no objects but only the gray solid.
If the gray solid would include/intertwine you into itself you would no longer be an observer; no longer separate.
Think about this. Does it make sense for this gray solid to have a maximum and minimum size? I.e., if in this non-separated gray solid there is no separation, can one size be separate from another by it being the maximum or minimum and other sizes non-maximum and non-minimum?
If not, “the unthinkable; thought!” or intertwined reality has no maximum nor minimum size and the size continuum is infinite.
All that can be observed – any theoretical observation – is not it.
Say we define incrementally more of reality as “our observation”. All “observed” that can theoretically be reached has been made possible to be reached for observation. However impossible the method for knowing some facts, those facts are there for our contemplation and hence definable as our observation. No matter how much we define as our observation, “the unthinkable; thought!” must remain an unbroken rule. Hence, since “the unthinkable; thought!” equals that reality cannot be observed, and since we can define all knowable facts as our observation, there must be more to reality than all knowable facts.
——-/2.1
——-2.2—–
E=mc2 is often culturally hailed as the latest and greatest equation of science. It can be used for very accurate empirical predictions, but consider the most basic aspect of the equation: it mentions both energymass (E=m) and spacetime (c
2
).
The way energymass is mentioned is straight-forward: energy is mass (hence the word “energymass”). The way spacetime is mentioned is a little more subtle. c is the speed of light, and as a speed is a distance over time. Distance is space and time is time – spacetime. Thus c2 is spacetime.
A single equation unifying energymass and spacetime.
As physical observers we are energymass; as the intrinsic laws of nature such as 1=1 we are spacetime. Also, energymass requires spacetime – there cannot be mass without a space for it to be in nor energy without time to happen during. The equation E=mc2 mentions us – both our spacetime and our energymass. We are part of whatever is referred to by the equation.
Just as the linguistic equation itself, though language usually has us visually imagine the meaning of the words, does not produce any imaginations, the energymassspacetime found as the intertwining of energymass with spacetime does not cause any imagination.
We cannot see, but we can talk about, the conclusion of the equation and similarily we cannot see but can talk about energymassspacetime.
——–/2.2——-
——2.3—-
The core idea in this book, the foundation for all other ideas in this book, is the proof for that we need a concept like “the unthinkable; thought!”. The same proof then proves that there is more to the sizescale than can be observed.
The proof for that reality cannot be observed i.e. for that “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, is contained within this very sentence. “That of which all is part” is that which all observers (you) are part of, thus by being part of it being separate from it is negated and impossible. As Descartes argued: that there is a thinker can be known to be true and that there is thought can be known to be true, thus separation (and conveniently between observer and thought) is proven by Descartes. This separation is as much a certainty as the existence of that of which all is part, and thus the unobservability (unthinkability) of that of which all is part.
—–/2.3—-
There are many paths to the same conclusion: E=mc2 and Descartes´ “I think and I am” is one path, the contemplation of intertwinedness and separation is another.
Another way is a thought experiment: imagine a square made of only four parts. The four parts represent all knowable parts (basically every quantum particle in the visible universe) and the entire square itself represents the sum of all parts. Seeing the square and the parts from the outside is easy when you are not one of the four parts, but if you were it would be impossible to have the outside view of the entire square. How could you built a representation out of the four parts which is the entire square, if you mind the observer (yourself)? Would any observation made up of any or all the parts be an observation of the entire square? No, thus that of which all is part (reality) cannot be observed, hence there is more to the sizescale than the knowable sizescale.
——3.1
The sizescale
What could be the unknowable aspect of reality? If it is an object within the known maximum and minimum limits of size, then we know that reality can hide something and tell us it is hidden. This basically means that the unknown object does not exert gravitational force, electromagnetic force nor any other interaction with any possible amplifier/sensor/observer. By knowing this about it, are we not contemplating the unknowable object and hence succeeded in somewhat knowing it?
With this defintion, that which can be contemplated is included in our observation and hence the unknown part must be infinite for there to be more to reality than our observation can grasp.
One thing that can be infinite – and is in fact infinite in pi, calculus, fractals and many other mathematical concepts – is size. The size continuum, from now on called “the sizescale”, can be imagined as an abstract layered structure in which each layer is linguistically defined as infinite 3-dimensional space, and the relationship between the layers being “change in size” or “justification” (see fig. 1).
Infinite justification
“The unthinkable; thought!” meant, through two proofs, that there is more to reality than can be observed. This something should be a size which we cannot contemplate.
Infinitely many sizes i.e. denying there being a maximum and minimum size not only is a conclusion reached from “the unthinkable; thought!”; but also means the relationship between the layers (justification) repeats endlessly. Justification is the cause-effect logical nature of reality and this being the relationship between the sizes, as it is between every two known sizes, is a possible justification/cause for why there is size. The answer to the question: “what justifies (size-wise) this size?” retreating endlessly into the ever smaller/larger is a way for size itself to be justified. Why is there size? The answer continues endlessly into ever other sizes. This is the unknown part of reality revealed as existent and unknown by “the unthinkable; thought!” and also a possible reason for why there is size itself.
The framework that science fits into
All fields of science such as quantum physics, chemistry, biology, anatomy, ecology, geology, astronomy and cosmology each study a particular size. The object of study in quantum physics is within a particular range of size and when the study crosses over to larger levels of size the connection between the scientific disciplines is revealed. The uniting factor between all empirical sciences is the study of size. By inquiring into what objects exist at every possible size there is science.
By representing change in size as change along distance, each subunit (layer) of the infinite sizescale is shown as a shape able to contain an object of a particular size. Thus by arranging objects into a system of layers all empirical scientific disciplines are shown clearly and simultaneously, revealing a more overarching pattern of nature.
The sizescale is a way to show science; it is the framework that science fits into. Every new discovery – be it of a new size (such as string theory) or of a new object within a known size (such as a new species of snail in the rainforest) – adds detail to the pre-existing framework of sizescale.
——-/3.1——–
——–3.2———
The sizescale
What we know about the sizescale is called “the known sizescale” and all that can be known about the sizescale is called “the knowable sizescale”. One of the pieces of knowledge – a conclusion reached from the premise “the unthinkable; thought!” – is that there is more to the sizescale than can be known. This applies to any observers, as does “the unthinkable; thought!”.
This, in combination with the pattern of the sizescale i.e. justification (the relationship between the layers), gives rise to the question of whether the sizescale is infinite or the only alternative: whether a finite part is strictly “hidden”. It seems absurd for reality to hide a finite part of itself, hence it seems like the sizescale is infinite (and thus reaches its state of being well described by “the unthinkable; thought!” by being infinite).
Other than the question of whether reality is infinite or hid a finite piece of itself to satisfy the condition of “the unthinkable; thought!”, the relationship between the layers (justification) seems to point toward the same kind of mechanism for existence as how E=mc2 summoned energymass: infinite justification (the first cause in size goes on retreating into infinity).
——-/3.2———
——-3.3——-
You can have a feel for biology. But is not biology as a concept on the very top of the hierarchy of abstraction, the very summary and conclusion of many subtopics within the field of biology? Likewise the sizescale is at the very top of a hierarchy of abstraction and its subtopics are all fields of science.
Perhaps a general understanding of all fields of science is required to get a feel for the sizescale itself. Once that is accomplished and it is known that the known sizescale is but a subtopic of an infinite sizescale, the known sizescale can be used to get a feel for the entire sizescale. Like biology or any other field of science has the same feel as all other fields of science, and like the relationship between biology and cosmology has the same feel as the relationship  between quantum physics and biology, the known sizescale has the feel of the entire sizescale.
——-/3.3—–
——3.4——
It is quite emotionally awesome to know the sizescale is infinite. What in many a soul inspire awe is the grandness of the cosmos: hell, even a galaxy is too large not to be awe-inspiring. Now, if there is the infinitely large and not only is it not a repetition of the largest known infinitely many times: it is as different from the known as the fields of science are different from one another. Also, our layer/size cannot possibly be the only one having reproduction and as a result consciousness, given infinitely many layers.
Another emotional thing is what could metaphorically be called “the reasoning of god”: how all this is impossible to see or imagine (observe) and yet we know so incredibly much about it. We visualize the infinite sizescale only because we know reality cannot be imagined (the unthinkable; thought!).
—–/3.4——
——–4.1——-
Big bang cosmology
There need be no justification for why nothing can be. It is a literal custom to say “there was nothing” but the sentance contains a contradiction: “was” implies existence and nothing is the opposite of existence. Nothing is synonymous with non-existence. There need be no justification for why non-existence non-exists.
Laws of nature – avoiders of absurdity – such as “1 = 1” and other rules of mathematics, physics and geometry that are true independent of anything other than avoiding absurdity must be true in nothing/non-existence. Certain things must be true even about nothing/non-existence and these are laws of nature.
One law of nature is E=mc2, which is true at every size i.e. applies to every field of empirical science. It basically amounts to saying that energymass and spacetime are intertwined (into a single reality). Think about this: do you believe E=mc2 is a law of nature which is true regardless of anything else i.e. is true about nothing/non-existence? I do, and thus energymass is “mentioned” in non-existence which, again, does not need justification because it is an empty framework with its laws of nature.
If energymass is mentioned in nothingness but not summoned, reality has basically made small talk or empty chatter – it “talks about” energymass without there being any substance to it. If this sounds impossible, the only resolution is for energymass to be summoned (i.e. made into existence).
As soon as there is nothing/non-existence (which does not need justification) there are laws of nature (such as E=mc2) and energymass is mentioned, and as soon as energymass is mentioned energymass is summoned.
Hence the universe can only go an infinitely short amount of time (or no time) before nothingness summons energymass. Should then energymass be summoned somewhere first? It should be summoned in the infinitely small spaces because E=mc2 is mentioned in the infinitely small spaces. This means that energymass or the big bang starts infinitely dense, and because the laws of nature within our known sizescale (I´m mainly thinking about quantum physics) pushes dense things apart, the big bang starts as hot and dense, and then expands becoming less dense.
Infinitely dense energymass is summoned in infinite spacetime and splits apart as hot things are shown to do in empirical experiments.
The mechanism for re-creating the big bang is for the universe to become less dense until the density is zero i.e. the universe is empty. The universe accomplishes this by accelerating cosmic expansion and black holes.
——-/4.1——
——–4.2———-
If a density graph is drawn for the entire visible universe, it´s density begins as high and drops lower and lower. See fig. 2. If the density can reach zero i.e. if our three dimensions of space no longer contain any energymass, then what is the purpose of the law of nature “E=mc2” which must be true even in empty space.
It is hard to imagine that the surrounding objects – tables, people and chairs – would some day not be here. But if “here” is defined as spacetime – three dimensional space – then a black hole which curves space infinitely much can give the objects it swallows the status of not being availble to our three dimensions. A table is a two-dimensional surface and if something falls off from the table – falls vertically i.e. in the third dimension – then it is no longer considered to be on the table. If something falls into a black hole it is no longer in our three dimensions and thus no longer can be considered to exist in spacetime. So when all things have fallen into black holes there is in effect empty spacetime; the density of the visible universe has become zero.
As soon as there is zero density i.e. perfect emptiness – and mind you E=mc2 still remains true in it – energymass can be and is summoned. It begins as infinitely dense because it is summoned in the smallest spaces simultaneously – every nook and cranny of infinite emptiness is filled all at once. Hot things split apart and this is what we see as comic expansion in the large scale structure of the universe. Because the layer of the sizescale in which accelerating cosmic expansion happens is so large and thus so unfamiliar compared to our everyday sizes to deal with, one phenomenon which becomes apparent is acceleration of the expansion. This acceleration need not be because of energy (the so called “dark energy”) but is more accurately described as the nature of sizes so remote in the sizescale that we cannot expect our common sense calibrated to the human-size to be applied to the very largest known.
——-/4.2———-
——-4.3—–
You can imagine dividing space into tiny boxes – the tiniest cubes known to man. Some cubes will contain mass and others will not, some will be part of a larger shape making up a carbon atom and others will be part of a hydrogen atom. 13.7 billion years ago every box  had mass in it. Infinite space was maximally filled with energymass and then energymass split apart in infinite space. This is difficult to imagine for many reasons, such as: we cannot see infinity, and we cannot see older light than the oldest light (and hence the visible universes border is our limit of knowledge).
The large scale structure of the universe quite looks like what you would expect from mass, packed very dense long time ago, splitting apart in infinite nothingness.
——–/4.3——
——–4.4——
Why did, in nothing (empty space), mass and energy fill every smallest nook and cranny of all available space? Laws of nature such as energy cannot be created nor destroyed (the conservation of energy) can only apply if there is energymass in the first place, and cannot be applied to perfectly empty space. Thus, creation as the big bang seems to violate the law of conservation of energy but in perfectly empty nothingness it does not matter if this law is violated as long as the creation happens in and is intrinsically tied to and does not overreach the extent to which it exists. Spacetime is intrinsically part of energymass i.e. energymass does not exist independent of spacetime (as seen in E=mc2), hence spacetime can summon energymass as long as the nature of energymass is such that it makes sense for it to exist, and for such sensical existence spacetime need be tied to energymass.
Another way of saying it is existence in non-existence; one in zero. The two are one and the tieing together is witnessed in E=mc2.
Another requirement, other than the limits of existence being tied to and set by spacetime, is that the summoning must happen equally everywhere. Thus, because the sizescale reaches to infinitely small size, the space between two arbitrarily chosen points is infinitely small (this is the concept of the derivative). In the infinitely small space E=mc2 is “first” true and there energymass is first summoned – both because energymass must be summoned as soon as there is nothing, because Einsteinian theory of relativity claims every point in space to be equal to every other (there is no center of the universe), and because if energymass is infinitely small – if there had been empty space between two energymasses – this space can be considered infinitely large from the point of view of the infinitely small.
——-/4.4——
———4.5—–
What is needed for there to be humans? Two phenomena are provided for by an infinite sizescale: the infinitely large and the infinitely small. Everyone agrees that in order to explain a human being one ought to explain the organs, and then the cells that the organs are part of, and further down the sizescale we go. Similarily a human cannot exist without a planet to be on, and a planet cannot exist without a solar system, and further up the sizescale we go. The infinite sizescale is one of the aspects needed for explaining humans.
Another aspect is energymass or existence itself. Why something rather than nothing? Because nothing – which does not prompt the question: “why does nothing exist?” (because it doesn´t “exist”) has the laws of nature which include E=mc2; because in nothing existence is allowed. If existence existed in something other than nothing that would be absurd; impossible. Existence exists as an infinite sizescale of one in zero (energymass in spacetime).
These two aspect – “one in zero” and an infinite sizescale – are what is needed to explain humans and indeed the known sizescale. All additional detail to this framework is just that: detail. Why the, seemingly finely tuned to support human life, detail that we find in our known sizescale? Because in parts of the sizescale that don´t allow life the detail is not observed/found because there is no observer within those sizes.
Because the sizescale is infinite toward the large, our layer is indeed infinitely large. Though the visible universe has its limits due to the finite speed of light, the entire universe – because the entire sizescale is infinite – is infinite. Hence there are infinitely many planets with intelligent life, just like earth – infinitely many within our layer i.e. all of these planets are approximately earth-sized. Remind you: each layer is defined as infinite 3-dimensional space.
Such a conscious layer containing infinitely much life, can be considered just a single layer i.e. a small range of size in which conscious life can exist. The sizescale being infinite there must be infinitely many conscious layers each being infinite 3-dimensional space and sustaining infinitely many consciousnesses.
Interestingly, if each conscious layer (only one of which (the human size) is known to us) is marked in an infinite sizescale, the visualization of this is like if you would mark every thousandth number on an infinite numberline. Showing more and more numbers out of infinity, the shown markings increase (see fig. 3). The infinite sizescale is full of life-sustaining sizes.
——–/4.5—–
——–4.6——-
——-/4.6——-
——-5.1——
The conscious size
The conscious sizes are infinitely many
Consciousness – basically the brain – is found at a certain layer/size of the sizescale. It is for example not found at the level of molecule – there is no way for a single molecule to exhibit anything like consciousness. The fact that we don´t find humans the size of planets shows that there is a unique conscious size. What seems to be needed for consciousness is a shape of mass that can assemble surrounding mass into a similar shape, thus giving rise to reproduction and mutation.
If the sizescale is infinite then reproduction and evolution should appear infinitely many times elsewhere in the sizescale; in levels of the sizescale other than the sizescale known to humans. Like the decimals of pi in which any sequence such as the sequence “000123456789000” repeats infinitely many times, the sizescale has consciousness infinitely many times. The sizescale being infinite, there must be infinitely many layers (outside our known sizescale) which exhibit consciousness.
——-/5.1———
——-5.2……..
The conscious size
The only conscious size known to man is our size – very roughly between a planet and a cell in size. It arose because of rules of evolution: reproduction, survival of the fittest and mutation. The two latter rules seem to be consequences of the first: it is difficult to imagine reproduction when there is no mutation (every offspring is a perfect copy) or to imagine the best adapted forms not to more often be the origins for further generations. It seems like whenever, in the entire infinite sizescale, there is reproduction then there is a good possibility for there to be consciousness. If the layer in which reproduction happens allows for the creation of brains, there probably is the possibility for abstract language and science, reasoning and the essence of this book.
There must be infinitely many conscious layers, only one of which is in the known (and probably knowable) sizescale.
——-/5.2——–
——-5.3——–
Just because we know of one conscious layer there probably are many in an infinite number of layers. Many assume there is life on other planets because of the probablity due to billions of stars in billions of galaxies, similarily one might assume there to not only be consciousness on planets (i.e. in our approximate size) but also beyond our knowable sizescale.
For example, if we name quantum physics “layer one”, humans “layer five” and the visible universe “layer ten”, then an infinite sizescale means there might be life between layers 83920 and 83930.
What is true about these observers? Whether they know it or not, or whether they can know it or not, their nature of being separate observers disables them for seeing reality as it is (“the unthinkable; thought!”). If they know this, they will know that their knowable sizescale does not constitute an observation of reality and thus there is more to the sizescale than can be observed. Thus they might ponder about what we humans are thinking and thus, because we ponder about what they are thinking, all consciousnesses might be in the same boat; knowing the same knowledge.
——–/5.3——-
——–5.4——
Perhaps you´ve imagined the sizescale as a sizescale of energymass. But because of the intertwining of energymass with spacetime – because every size of energymass is tied to the same size of spacetime – the sizescale is both of energymass and spacetime. There is a spacetime sizescale and an energymass sizescale, both are intertwined with one another.
This, by the way, explains why many scientific concepts come as both an energymass-description and a spacetime-description. For example gravity was originally a force between two masses (the Newtonian energymass-description), with the focus being on energymass. Then Einstein described the same phenomenon with a focus on spacetime – gravity is a curvature of space and masses passively follow this curvature of space. Both descriptions are right, and the reason we have both an energymass description and a spacetime description is because the sizescale is energymassspacetime: on each layer of the sizescale we deal with both energymass and spacetime and thus can describe every phenomenon from these two points of view.
Another example is the wave-particle-dualism of quantum physics: we find quarks (and electrons, etc.) so unintuitive and impossible to imagine because we have both a particle-description for them and a spacetime-description. For example the brightness of light is represented as the number of photons and the amplitude of the wave. Color is the energy(mass) of a particle and the wavelength (distance) in a wave. In the spacetime description we consider distance (space) such as amplitude and wavelength, and in the energymass description we consider energy and number of masses.
——–/5.4——
——-6.1—–
Dark energy, dark matter
The confusion in contemporary scientific discourse regarding dark matter and dark energy can easily be solved using the sizescale. The dark matter and dark energy problems arise because we don´t realize the sizescale is infinite i.e. change happens between the different sizes. We expect gravity to work the same in a huge system as in a relatively small system – the problems arise when we try to apply our model of gravity in a solar system to an entire galaxy or to the entire cosmos. Realizing these systems are of different size or in different layers of the sizescale, we adapt to describing them using other equations than those applicable to much smaller sizes.
In the context of an infinite sizescale, expecting a galaxy to be like a solar system is like booking an appointment for a cancerous cell to a psychologist because we expect a small system (a cell) to be like a human – “maybe it will stop feeding and growing with the right psychotherapy”.
——-/6.1—-
——-6.2—–
If the sizescale would have been a common and accepted concept in the minds of the majority, there would not have been – what i see as – the need to make layers of the sizescale such as galaxies i.e. huge sizes conform to our expectations. It is, in my opinion, arrogant to utilize concepts such as dark matter and dark energy because it requires us to add unseen mass to galaxies (and even more ridiculously: the majority of a galaxy must be such dark matter), rather than accepting the galaxy as it is because it is on another layer of the sizescale. The problem is of applying an existing world-view dominated by our layer of the sizescale (the solar system to human size) to layers much different.
We´ve already had experience of this in quantum physics, in which a classical world view of a clear distinction between particle and wave apply. The reason quantum physics is so different compared to anything found at the human sizes, is precisely because quantum physics is the study of a layer far removed from our human layer. A galaxy is similarily far removed from our human layer and thus we cannot apply classical beliefs on it. In fact, a galaxy SHOULD be different because of its very different size. This is the nature of the sizescale: the reason one layer can justify another is because the layers are different from one another.
——-/6.2——
——6.3—–
Some think the Higgs-particle is the first cause of mass (existence) itself, meaning the entire infinite sizescale begins at quantum physics. Since humans are closer to quantum physics than the infinitely large, such a Higgs-believer could say that we are infinitely close (the derivative) to the smallest mass i.e. the beginning of the sizescale.
Another reason why it is absurd to suggest that there is a beginning to the sizescale is that a finite sizescale (with truly a maximum and a minimum size) has a center layer; a medium size. This situation of being in a finite sizescale would mean that some masses – the very largest and very smallest – are not justified by larger and smaller masses respectively. The pattern of justification (the relationship between any two layers) is noticed between any two known sizes, and the difference between any two sizes is the smallest known size. How many times can the smallest known size be multiplied to go from the smallest known size to the largest known size? This many times the pattern of justification is noticed, making it empirically seem like a law of nature because of its consistency. If this law of nature would be violated at the very largest and smallest by there not being anything larger and smaller respectively, it would be like gravity being violated in only two spots in the entire visible universe.
Another reason for not thinking that there is a beginning of mass i.e. smallest mass, is that it makes infinite justification impossible. The only known causal mechanism explaining why there is size (and thus humans) would be rendered invalid. We´d be left in the awkward world view of the smallest mass not having a reason to exist because what justifies/explains all known masses is ever smaller masses.
A similar historical situation to the one we are in now regarding the infinity/finity of the sizescale, is when we wondered whether there is a center of space or whether relativity is valid. It turned out that every point in space is equal to every other; every point is the center and no point is the center. Likewise: there is no center size; there is no smallest and largest size and thus no average between them. Much like we seemingly find ourselves in the middle of the visible universe, we are in the middle of the known sizescale (as large compared to the smallest known as we are small compared to the largest known). That a sizescale has a center (middle layer) is an illusion caused by our finite knowledge of the infinite sizescale, just like our seemingly middle poisition in the visible universe is caused by our finite knowledge of the entire infinite universe.
——/6.3—–
—-interlude—
———————————————————————————————————
—-/interlude—
——————-
The mind evolved during time, hence every function (collection of cells which processes information) can be said to have a timestamp. Placing the functions along a timeline from first evolved to most recently evolved reveals all functions of the mind. The first evolved functions would be examples like an activation of an avoidance movement when the temperature is too high (lizards do this). A function evolved somewhat in the middle of the history of the mind would be mammalian caretaking behaviours towards offspring (mama cat gets distressed if her offspring yelp).
The cortex i.e. the seat of all things uniquely human such as language, art, culture, mathematics etc. is the most recently evolved part of the brain. It is highly adaptable; for example written language arose in such recent history that our brains cannot have evolved to handle written language, and we are not born with writing skills but must learn them. This shows that the cortex is highly flexible. But just like the other functions that (the much longer evolutionary) history created, the cortex learns one function after another and can thus be placed on the same timeline of functions. An example of a most recently evolved function is thus that when a pencil and a paper are placed in front of you and you are told to write, you accomplish writing.
You contain both an avoidance behavior due to too hot temperature, and a writing behavior due to learnt cues. Both can be placed on the same timeline and a line can be drawn between genetically hard-wired functions and learnt functions during your lifetime.
Thus we get a finite (rather than infinite like the sizescale) layered structure where each layer is a function. Another difference compared to the sizescale is that this mind representation has distinct layers because functions evolved in distinct steps (while the sizescale is continuous).
Input comes from the senses into the mind, is processed in the mind and the output is presented in the “output area”.
Identity
People can choose between six different phenomena as to which to identify with. I will present examples for each of the six:
1 – the output: You can be identified with the output of the mind. The output of the mind is thought or as I like to call it: “conceptuo-emotional experience” (conceptual, emotional experience). The output of the mind changes from moment to moment, thus being identified with this fleeting output should mean that you are different every time the content of the output area i.e. your thinking or experience changes.
2 – evolutionary functions: You can set your identity as the timeline of functions called the mind. It produces the content of the output area. Looking at each function in isolation you would find them similar to software code: doing basic biologically hard-wired repetative tasks on input and then generating output.
3 – the output area: The output of the mind can only be presented in something akin to a RAM-memory in a computer: there must be a physical structure in the brain in which the output is. This structure need not be anatomically distinct and so can be spread out over the entire brain. If you identify as that which underlies the thoughts; that which allows and in which the thoughts appear, then you´ve identified as the output area.
The output area being a physical structure, you can zoom in into it just like you can on a computer´s memory. Though it is tempting to identify as the output area and thus be the witnessing presence allowing the fleeting experiences, if you zoom in on the physical structure of the output area you find cells and atoms. The output area is a biological physical conglomeration of atoms.
4 – the conscious size: The output area being a rather simple biological structure, it should not be uncommon and obviously is not on earth. Because space is infinite there must be infinitely many output areas; the output area is a common physical structure at out layer of the sizescale i.e. our size. You won´t find an output area the size of a planet nor the size of a molecule. Because the brain-sized layer of the sizescale is defined as infinite 3-dimensional space, it manifests infinitely many output areas. Manifesting output areas is a feature of the size itself. Thus you might not identify with your particular biological structure but instead the structure itself. A thought experiment might reveal my point: imagine the output area being a very simple structure like an abstract triangle. Notice the distinction between identifying as a particular triangle (such as the one in Sweden (particular location) at 2 am (particular time)), and a more general identity such as any identical copy of the triangle or triangleness in general. The output area as a physical structure exists in infinitely many locations; do you identify with one of these many identical structures?
5 – all size: if you´ve chosen to identify with the size itself and thus the consciousness that is a property of it everywhere and always, then recognize that the distinction between the layers of the sizescale are arbitrary. Size is infinitely small and thus the difference between two sizes is infinitely small; the sizescale is continuous. To identify as one size makes it hard not to identify as all size because all sizes are intimitely entangled.
6: the unthinkable thought: if you identify as all size of spacetime, and spacetime includes the E=mc2 equation, then energymass is involved and you´ve identified with energymasspacetime i.e. the unthinkable; thought!
Identity being output brings the problem of fleeting changing conceptuo-emotional experience: identity seems too fleeting and changing.
Identity being the output area brings the problem of the physical structure into which the ouput is fed is a simple biological structure.
Identity being the evolutionary functions sets identity as the producing factory of the unique thoughts that reveal your unique personality, but these functions are simple, cold and calculating like software code.
Identity being the conscious layer of the sizescale means infinite space always has my identity at every brain-sized location, but what distinguishing this size from other sizes?
Identity being all size: thus identity is the unthinkable; thought.
Numbers 4 and 5 (conscious layer and all size) focus on spacetime while the others (1,2,3,6) include energymass. Thus it is possible to set your identity as spacetime.
During a lifetime you hear the word “I” refer to all of the six different identities. All are valid defintions of “I”.
We have the ability to be any identity except number 1 (output), thus we can be the outside observers of output. Knowing that output many times comes from functions evolved to survive and reproduce in a brutal natural selection, we might not want to believe that our urge is the correct path to happiness even though the urge did lead our ancestors to survive and reproduce. By identifying with anything except number 1 (output), we do not get fooled when primitive functions urge us, for the sake of pleasure, to do something which we know will not even help us like it did our ancestors.
It is our cortex that makes us not completely instinctual animals, let´s use it to keep track of our identity to see when it shifts to output. If identity stays completely at output then we are bound to pursue every conceptuo-emotional experience or urge with full conviction. We remove identity from the output area and focus it solely on the output/urge, which then becomes our whole world.
When thinking arose, quickly there needed to be disidentification from thought in order for madness not to spread.
Output, evol function and output area are energymass: located, impermanent, changing.
Conscious layer, all size, the unthinkable thought: non-locational, eternal, allowing, unchanging.
—-
Identity in this context only exists when you have your glasses off: take a closer look and what you thought was identity was something else.
—-/b—–
What is the observer (also called consciousness or the self)? I will present several options:
The output
I am the fleeting thoughts that come and go throughout the day, that is to say I am the output of the brain.
The evolutionary functions
I am the evolved functions accomplished by assemblies of cells, which process input turning it into output. For example a long time ago we evolved the function that produces fear when the input is the sensation of a snake. So many of our ancestors died because of snake bites that in a certain generation of our species one of us was afraid of snakes, curtesy of a random mutation. This “fear the snake”-gene was an evolutionary benefit and thus many generations later everyone had it. Hence the output/thought can be fear because we see a snake, due to the evolutionary functions we might define ourselves as.
The old brain i.e. the first functions to evolve are this kind of rigid and non-alterable functions. The cortex (the new brain) must be trained during an individuals lifetime so that, for example, one of its functions is to read and write.
Evolution gave us a giant cortex so that it could be rewired during an individual´s lifetime. Thus we could learn by ourselves and from our parents and peers. The difference between the cortex and the old more rigid functions is that the cortex´s functions change during a lifetime. Evolution started out with rigid functions hard-coded in DNA, then let us have a blank sheet cortex which creates functions from past experience and prediction.
If we were to draw a timeline on which we put every function in the same order as it arose in:
the old brain´s functions would be at the start of the timeline,
the cortex´s functions would cover about two thirds of the timeline.
Generally, the old brain´s functions evolved during evolutionary time and the cortex´s functions evolved during a lifetime.
—
The output area (memory)
The output from the evolutionary functions must be stored in some kind of memory. The memory or output area into which output from the evolutionary functions is fed, is the consciousness in which thoughts and experience unfolds.
The conscious size
The output area is simply a physical biological structure within the brain and if you would zoom in on it (go lower in the sizescale) you´d find that it´s made of atoms. Just like a computer´s memory is able to store any sequence of numbers that fits onto it, I expect the brain´s memory to have a simple structure just like a computer´s memory has.
If I define myself as this output area/memory, it doesn´t seem to be unique for two reasons: without thought there is nothing that lets me distinguish my output area or consciousness from yours (just like two computer memories are identical when they just left the factory), and the simple physical structure of the output area makes it hard for me to identify with mine because yours – an equal physical structure – also exists.
Space is infinite and thus these physical structures exist in every direction, even infinitely far away: the are infinitely many output areas in the universe. More specifically, there is no output area the size of a planet nor the size of a single cell, thus there is a conscious size (approximately the size of a human brain) in which every known consciousness exists. An inherent property in the conscious size is to manifest output areas, as it does 7 billion times on earth. If I identify myself as the conscious size i.e. the size in which the output area exists, then I am everywhere (but brain-sized) and eternal.
I can define myself as the layer in the sizescale in which the non-unique cortical memory structure resides.
Here is a thought experiment: antropomorphize a planet and ask it: “what do you identify yourself as?” Do you expect the answer to be its unique characteristics, details about its particular atmosphere, its unique history, etc. or do you expect an answer that shows familiarity with all planets in general i.e. the planet-layer of the sizescale?
If you ask me as a geologist, I´d say Mars ought to acknowledge its uniqueness but identify with being a planet among infinitely many others all studied by geologists (and not studied by biologists or cosmologists i.e. students of other layers of the sizescale). Mars´ identity is planet in general i.e. the planet layer of the sizescale. Among the infinitely many layers of the sizescale only one of which contains planets, it would be silly for Mars to say “I am that red dust cloud that just started at my north pole, and that crater created a million years ago, and…” and a list of unique details. We all know Mars as a planet and would say we know its identity, even though we don´t know even most of all possible unique details that can be listed about Mars.
—
If you can say you are a particular size, and each layer or size of the sizescale is defined as infinite 3-dimensional space, and if your size is deeply interconnected with the larger and smaller in the bond of justification (the relationship between the layers), then should you not identify as all size rather than just one size?
The conscious size could not exist without the other sizes.
Because size is a property of emptiness i.e. if there were nothing there´d still be size, is it reasonable to select and identify as one size (or “part”) out of infinite emptiness. Emptiness comes as an infinite spacetime-sizescale: is it reasonable to identify as one of its layers? Can distinctions be made in nothingness?
—–
If you´ve identified with nothingness which comes as an infinite spacetime-sizescale, in which E=mc
2
is true and energymass is summoned, then you have identified as energymasspacetime and the unthinkable thought.
—–/
Ending notes
One way to teach this science is to do it the way that if convinces everybody: you begin with Descartes’ certain truth (thought exists; thinker exists) and then go on to say “there is separation”, then you ask what the opposite of separation is and have the unthinkable thought – from that arises the infinite sizescale, and somewhere in such a fractal-like sizescale there was evolution. This all draws the scientific diagram which they draw on other planets.
This scientific theory/world-view is much like rap: words/ideas rhyme/connect with one another, and in between them you add some other words to create a coherent sentence/understanding. Thus you can begin anywhere and make your way to everywhere else.
Copyright Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
19900112-4917
Sweden
0769284838
Author
yonis
Posted on
August 22, 2016
August 22, 2016
Leave a comment
on book 22 8 2016
Search for:
Search
Recent Posts
book 22 8 2016
Recent Comments
Archives
August 2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.org
sizescale
Proudly powered by WordPress

sizescale – Just another WordPress site
Skip to content
sizescale
Just another WordPress site
book 22 8 2016
Sizescale Book 22 8 2016
Introduction
The first two papers (or sub-books) in this book are my latest writings, whilst the last paper (sub-book) is an edited version of five years’ worth of writing. In the latest papers (which come first in this book) the ideas I’ve come up with are summarized and the rigorous reasoning is swiftly gone through, so for a thorough understanding of the ideas and the origins of the ideas it is worthwhile reading the last and longest sub-book in this book.
Table of Contents
Introduction. 1
Sub-book August 2016. 4
Sub-book September 2016. 7
Foreword. 7
Chapter 1. 10
The Sour Fruits. 16
God. 21
The extraterrestiral diagrams. 24
Morality. 25
Sub-book November 2016. 26
Sub-book years 2011-2016. 44
The brain: how does the human brain work, think and anticipate. 44
Preface. 44
Introduction: 44
The Anatomy of History. 44
Anatomy of history. 47
The sizescale. 58
The difference between the sizescale and the sizescale-concept 59
The definition of a layer 60
The relationship between the layers. 60
Time in the sizescale. 60
The observer of the sizescale. 61
The standards. 62
Things to do with the sizescale. 63
Movement shows different spaces. 63
Rotating the sizescale applies the same rotation to every layer 64
“Flow” in the sizescale. 64
Give the layers names. 64
Summary. 65
An infinite sizescale. 66
The existential theory based on an infinite sizescale. 68
Philosophical reasons for the sizescale. 69
I think and I exist 69
The ability to draw graphs. 70
Conclusion. 71
Limits of knowledge break a trend. 71
A center of the sizescale. 72
Calculus. 73
Summary. 73
Proof that there is more to the sizescale than the knowable sizescale. 74
Reality is one. 74
That of which all is part cannot be observed. 74
Summary. 76
The existential theory continues. 78
A finite knowable sizescale. 78
Proving that space is infinitely large. 80
Theory one: there is a middle of existence. 81
Theory two: the back of your head is far in front of you. 82
Theory three: space is infinite. 83
Summary. 84
E=mc2. 84
Energymass and spacetime descriptions: one for each sizescale. 87
The existential theory continues. 88
Dark matter and Dark energy. 91
The sizescale movie. 94
The Existential theory continues. 98
Questions and answers. 100
Life beyond the limits of knowledge. 100
The forces of the sizescale. 100
The big bang’s end and beginning. 101
History of Idea: The unthinkable thought 168
Spacetime. 171
Summary. 173
E=mc2. 173
Energymasspacetime. 175
Summary. 176
The sizescale. 185
The difference between the sizescale and the sizescale-concept 186
The definition of a layer 187
The relationship between the layers. 187
Time in the sizescale. 188
The observer separate from every observers’ vision simultaneously. 189
The standards. 190
Things to do with the sizescale. 191
Summary. 192
How religion arose. 202
Future Prediction. 204
Sub-book August 2016
The late Christopher Hitchens, but now Lawrence Krauss, Sam Harris and Richard Dawkins travel the globe debating atheism and religion. The religious people tend to respond by, to what me seems to be, “the God of the gaps” meaning whatever science can’t yet answer is the reason to believe God. The origins of the universe (the existential theory) and what the universe’s morality is (universal morality) are points where the atheist debaters get stuck. They argue that just because science doesn’t know the answer doesn’t mean some medieval revealed “holy book” does. But that doesn’t convince the religious: they’d rather have the answer from their prophet than the scientific “we don’t know”-answer.
The existential theory proposed in this book has several pillars or points that can be addressed: the separation-intertwinedness-opposition, the energymass-spacetime-opposition, and the infinity of the sizescale. It is obvious that this is a “map” (in the map-territory distinction; the menu is not the meal), but it is as close as we’ve gotten to a full-fledged existential theory and I bet it is as far as alien millions-of-years-more-advanced civilizations have gotten too. They recognize the map-territory-distinction (subjective humans trying to map an objective reality and the discrepancy between the subjective and the objective) and do the best they can whilst forced into that situation. The existential theory I propose is the best we can do being (as we will always be) subjective observers.
When it comes to morality I find the most difficult question that of either having a large investment-class or having welfare for many. There are important future projects that require massive investments and a community where no-one has spare money to invest is not good for the future; neither is the pain and stress that comes from having a small amount of money for the substance of a large number of people. Right now the world is in some kind of balance between having many billionaires and having some welfare for the poor. Which way the election goes changes this balance, and its a too difficult question for me to answer: do we need to meet the investment-class’ needs or the welfare class’ needs? Either way the election is not, whatever way it goes after the vote, not drastically changing the fact that the world is diverse in the sense that there are both investors and stress-free welfare states. This topic I consider to be part of “morality” and it is too hard of a question – the left-right-wing debate is – to answer scientifically.
But science, as an ideology, has its own morality which is much more certain. It is a self-perpetuating morality meaning science helps science; other planets in the universe millions of years ahead of us would want us to invest in and promote science (because that helps both the investor-class and is of benefit for the poor). The most obvious example is the end of war and rise of sanity that comes from everyone adopting identical world-views (based on my book).
Whatever helps science (and I consider myself helping science a lot; and those who help me help science) is moral. Whether its the rich taking from the poor to help me, or the poor helping me – helping science is so much more important and clearly a moral good that it doesn’t matter whether it was a left-or-right-wing ideology that tunneled money to science.
In other words: science I help science a lot I am worthwhile to invest in (it is universally moral; aliens would approve of it) – whether that money came from theft or inheritance or other ways doesn’t make much of a dent as long as it is invested in what is certainly moral: science.
I’ve watched the debates of atheists (Dawkins, Krauss, Hitchens, Harris) against religious people and the only things that hold religion up (the lack of a complete scientific existential theory and the universal morality) are things that I can defeat: I have the best scientific existential theory and I have a universal moral code. Religion has thus no place in the world-view I can derive and convince anyone of beginning from certain truths like the statements “I am” and “thought exists”.
The debates between atheists and religious people on youtube, when I watched them, always lacked a coherent step-by-step logical narrative by the atheists that takes everyone along the path to a certain full world-view. The atheists also never answered fundamental questions where religion has its domain: what is the existential theory and what is scientific morality? I watched over 200 courses by the best professors in the world to manufacture a step-by-step teaching series and to answer the questions where religion still held ground in the atheists vs religious debates.
I’m looking forward to a world where military spending is cut by alot because there no longer are world-view differences that spark crises in international relations. There will only be “normal crime” – rich vs. poor, and some vengeance (eventhough that too is lessened by a deeper understanding of ourselves and the universe). I’m looking forward to that the education system is changed so that even young children can comprehend that we live in an infinite sizescale (and the rest of the existential theory), etc. There are many things I look forward to that I think wil change once this universal world-view becomes mainstream.
Since I’ve inveted all three pillars of the existential theory myself, improved upon the typcal teaching of evolution (by adding that cavemen were hierarchical, wanted power and therefore their brain-size grew) and derived morality from the previously stated two examples, I expect to get some credit for having caused the coming paradigm-shift. That puts the spot-light on me, allowing me to help even more by clarifying which issues are important for humanity: the environment/climate, genetic engineering (to improve upon the human race) – without saying “education” because that can take care of itself without much financing as long as we rationally have people seek knowledge by the means they find most suitable for them – whether it be gaining that knowledge from authority, by curiosity, by means of empathy, for connection with aliens/the cosmos (universal knowledge shared by infinitely many planets) or because it is high status and there is peer-pressure to know certain elementary things like “why the sizescale exists”.
Using evolutionary theory coupled with anatomy we can finally fulfill the old maxim “know thyself”; we can know where the religious concepts of “soul” and “God” came from and which parts of any religion are distortions and unwanted fuzz added for worldly sakes.
Sub-book September 2016
Foreword
“It is religion that makes people retarded – if they had a void instead of religion, given the right external cultural surroundings, that void would be filled by science. Today religion blocks the intake of science by occupying that void” –
Jonatan Mustonen
The late Christopher Hitchens said, and I’ve come to agree, that religion is the main cause for hatred in the world. You see people of basically every religion claiming a holy person and holy book, and then hatred grows from that exclusive connection to the supposedly divine. You saw communism proclaim that once everyone is financially equal, that will be a universal scientific world-order. In debates you see religious people hold the view that morality comes from divine revelation, while the other side argues that it basically comes from the tummy: that it is inate in us (this of course isn’t the kind of ideological set-of-rules-with-a-goal morality that the islamists or communist want). In the indistrualized countries there is an existential crisis because the scientific world-view lacks morality i.e. seems immoral – so do dull that crisis there is a cycle of work, small-talk and meaningless entertainment on TV. The ones who have gotten everything materialism has to offer and have lived in wealth for a while sometimes go altruistic in wanting to help society, and that is as close to an ideological morality as there is – but it still lacks the philosophical underpinnings of how to best help society; it lacks the 20
th
century “key to history” (the goal of humanity) enthusiasm that both nazism and communism offered. “I’m so rich I might aswell help society in haphazard ways” lacks the appeal to rationality that the western intellectual tradition aims to provide – it isn’t thorough, based on fundamental logical principles, complete and agreed upon by every science-minded person.
The reason to study history is that similar circumstances tend to produce similar results because human nature never changes. If humans were profoundly different today compared to a historical yesterday, there’d be nothing to learn from history. The main point I’ve taken away from studying human evolution (what evolutionary pressure shaped our brains to be as they are) and brain-anatomy (which brain-circuitries are easily evolved, refined and are the basis for what intrests us / our motivations), is that there needs to be an appeal to some old evolved emotion in order for us to become intrested in whatever civilized pursuit we undertake. Maybe I should bribe you with a hamburger if you finish reading this book – or heaven or hell to make it more interesting. All jokes aside I believe the vast majority of those who will read this book do so because it is inate in us to be curious, to enjoy humor, to become more appealing to employers/partners/friends by knowing more, and so on.
We’ve got to involve our emotions in our civilized pursuits.
An ideological morality, thus, must take into account human nature; we can’t have an ideological morality without the engagement of our emotions. There must be an emotional push toward adopting an ideological morality (whether it be heaven or hell or the admiration of a larger-than-life ancient character’s revelations, in other words: carrots, sticks or peer-pressure). Since we find no carrots or sticks for being moral in the scientific world-view, we will rely on peer-pressure. Luckily this peer-pressure is enormous because there are infinitely many planets who have the same access to scientific truth that we have, and for us (our planet) to become more like their (more advanced) planets gives us the morality of doing whatever advances or spreads science – because then we “fit into the group”, the “group” being infintely many more planets where basic scientific concepts are so wide-spread that everyone there knows them.
To repeat: humans have an inate need to fit in to the surrounding cultural context, and on a cosmic scale there are infinitely many planets with a scientific culture. Ergo: we ought to become more scientific (do things that intend to or have the consequence of advancing or spreading science).
Here’s a test sentence to let yourself know if you got my point: in order to be “approved of” (social pressure) by infinitely many extraterrestrials, we ought to promote and advance the only path that leads to a world-view (a world-view is ideas and reasoned associations between those ideas) that comes from science. The infinitely many extreterristrials whoms world-view we want to imitate didn’t roll a dice or let historical accident decide which world-view they ought to have – they used scientific reasoning.
I can hear you ask: “but what if Hitler or Stalin would’ve imposed their (“one world – one race” and “one world – one class” respectively) world-view by winning World War 2?” There’s only so long that you can prevent/censor scientific discoveries, so in a long-enough time-span even these two tyrants wouldn’t have been able to stop scientific ideas from circulating. It was tried on Copenicus but it was human curiosity, impatience for something new and true, and an elite’s inability to control freedom of speech fully, that led to Copernicus’ heliocentric world-view to become mainstream knowledge. Point being that even if Hitler or Stalin would’ve taken over the whole world, planets tend to gravitate toward a scientific world-view anyway.
The universal world-view which planets tend to gravitate toward (regardless of being democracies or tyrannies) includes the peer-pressure-based morality of wanting to be like other planets, and thus finding that whatever promotes or advances science is moral. Science, of course, is minimalistic and sceptical in its theories (which is why Stalin’s claim that communism is scientific is false because its taken out of thin air without any underpinnings). This invariably leads to less diversity – it is not only right to believe all the right things, but it is also right to disregard all the untrue things. Its not sufficient – if you want to have the universal world-view – to believe all the scientific truths, you need also to rid yourself of your fantasies or elfs and santa-clauses. The first is more important than the second though: being educated and superstitious is better than knowing nothing but also believing in no falsehoods.
Its quite a subtle point I’m making: in order to be as close to our extraterrestrial brethren in world-view as possible we ought to have no illusions about unicorns and the like – because if each planet (or each society within each planet) chooses its own illusions to believe in, we are not as unified to the cosmic brotherhood as we could be. On the other hand it is reasonable to believe that our cosmic brethren emphasize happiness/peacefullness (for example they don’t torture animals for fun) and if some illusion gives you happiness/peacefullness you ought to keep it.
But the sceptical scientific attitude that our cosmic brethren share with our future selves places all illusions far apart from the scientific world-view, because of their different methods for proving that a claim is true.
Since NASA is still looking for extraterrestrial life it might seem that I’m on loose ground when I simply put forth that there indeed are extraterrestrials. The only reason I didn’t explain my proof for extraterrestrial intelligent life in the beginning of the book is because it takes a while to reason ourselves to that conclusion. This book is about a “world-view” which I define as ideas connected by reasoning (like rhyming words in rap are connected to other words to form sentences) and since I can’t transfer all my ideas and the connecting reasonings simultaneously through telepathy into your brain, I’ve got to start somewhere, but starting at this morality-topic calls upon later chapters in this book.
Why should you read this book?
World War 1 was about alliances, loyalties and honor – it wasn’t a crusade eventhough religion was used to preach war from the pulpit. World War 2 was about “one world – one race” and “one world – one class”-ideologies but even here religion played a role, like with the nazis wearing “Gott mit uns” (God with us) belt buckles. Eventhough religion has never been claimed to have been the main reason for both great wars, religion was used to boost military morale. After the Cold War there came attacks and wars which were, if not purely then mainly, religiously motivated. Generation Y thus has the goal of crushing the age-old religion in order to stop war in our age. We can get peace in our age by stopping religion.
Defeating the religious world-view and replacing it with a universal one, is the same task as educating people (the moral goal of other planets because they want to conform to universal scientific culture), which is the same task as environmentalism because other planets reasonably want a sustainable long-term living on their planets, which is the same task as reducing poverty and taking women off of the animal breeding-cycle by educating third-world nations, which is the same task as understanding the context (the scientific world-view model) within which ones own everyday life unfolds. Learning this world-view answers the meanigfull questions like “what kind of being am I?”, “what is this universe that I’m in?”, “what is morality?” and partly “what does the future hold in store for us?”, while building meaningful friendships because as flock-animals we tend to bond better with those who think like us (and science is a way of getting everyone to think alike – not produce ideas alike but the ideas being produced will be alike).
Military spending would be so much different if everyone agreed in the same world-view; the enthusiasm about many peoples life-purpose would be different if a scientific universal morality would be the north-star to their actions. In other words: to prove a particular world-view would change both the macrocosm geopolitically and the microcosm on an individual-to-individual basis. It would change the human relationship to religion and it would befriend us with one another because we can even derive art and rituals from science (as they do on infinitely many of our brethren planets). Again I’m revealing what will be proven later in this book.
What if the world would be reset religion-wise and we’d all be back on square one albeit with zones of poverty and zones of wealth? Politics would be all about money – not enemies of religion. Right now religion divides people, causes hate and steers money for the support of this or that religion against some other religion. What if all of humanity would unite under a single “religion” based on science? Atheist nations tend to mock highly religious nations, and religious nations tend to mock or fight one another based on the supposed superiority of one religion over another. That is an era coming to an end once science solves all fundamental philosophical problems that religions seem to answer (what are we? where did we come from? what does the universe tell us to do or how do other planets do?). That will unite the world in one, the only difference between nations being wealth instead of world-view.
Overpopulation is a problem which’s solution is education and contraceptives – religion blocks both those solutions. The science in this book is the answer to the question of education, and eliminating religion is the answer to the religious block of contraception.
Economic growth or decline among nations also is decided by who the USA considers its allies (meaning whomever adopts its values). Once my book goes mainstream all nations will be equally educated and thus worthy of growth.
“Hitler proposed that it was one race, Stalin proposed that it was one class – I propose that a single world-view is a step in the right direction.” – Jonatan Mustonen
Chapter 1
What is the opposite of separation? Descartes noticed separation when he made several separate claims: “I think/thought exists”, “I am/I exist” and the separation itself between the two earlier mentioned entities.
Call the opposite of separation what you want – you can’t see it. We can call it intertwinedness, oneness… You can’t see it because we/you/any observer is in separation – in Descartes’ realm – and the opposite of separation can’t be observed because observation is separation.
If you take “that of which all is part”, in other words: Reality with a capital R; it is one and has nothing (especially no observer) separate from it.
You might interject here saying that “sure, that of which all is part cannot be observed – but that only means that my brain’s representation of the real world is not the real world itself; the map is not the territory, the menu is not the meal”. In other words: its quite a petty conclusion that “Reality cannot be seen (because of the separation-intertwinedness-opposition) and that just means what every anatomist already knows about the brain: that it represents/maps.”
My answer to this is:
Yes, the brain represents. So let’s let one braincell represent the one unity of which all things are part. Or better yet: let’s let the smallest thing represent the rest of it (all things) including itself. Still the claim “that of which all is part cannot be represented/observed” must hold true as it basis itself of a fundamental conflict: that between separation and separation’s opposite (intertwinedness, Reality, oneness – call it what you will but you can’t see it). Even if we take the thought-experiment to its extremes and play around with letting everything represent everything, or the smallest thing represent everything, etc – we are working on a different level than the universe’s fundamental opposition between separation and intertwinedness. The separation-intertwinedness-clash comes first, and thus the “that of which all is part cannot be observed” comes first, and only later can counter-arguments be built to propose that the primordial arguments somehow only relate to humans/observers (“the menu is not the meal”) and not a fundamental clash of opposites in the universe.
Both separation and intertwinedness are properties of Nature and are so without humans conceiving them too. There are separate entities even if there were no-one to observe them, and there is intertwinedness (a singular Reality) even if there would be no-one contemplating it. Such matters exist and are true irrespective of human convictions and interventions and thus the separation-intertwinedness-clash is not subject to human cultivation of it – it is not the same as the map-territory-distinction which distinguishes our observations (the map) from what we observe (the territory). The separation-intertwinedness-clash is the fundamental fabric of Nature and part of the existential theory, while the map-territory-distinction is about humans and representations – there is a distinct leap of fundamentalness when jumping between the two: one is the starting mechanism of the cosmos while the other is about subjectivity.
“Reality can’t be observed” is just a shorthand way of saying “that of which all is part cannot be represented (no matter how liberal our definition of ‘represent’ is)”.
If not a human, nor the smallest thing, nor the largest thing can represent Reality (because of the serapation/representation/observertion-intertwinedness/onesness/Reality-clash), then what can we represent? Every object and every nook and corner of empty space has two parameters: a size and a time. Everything we know has its size and it exists, has existed or will exist at some time. We can thus draw a size-time-diagram with size on one axis and time on the other. Everything from galaxies to humans to quantum particlewaves fits in there somewhere because they are located both on the size-axis (vertical) and time-axis (horizontal).
As a footnote to refer back to extraterrestrial civilization’s utilization of this diagram: their (as did ours) history of science went from the stone age to the bronze age to the iron age and it was first with sculpted glass and metals that the first telescopes and microscopes were invented. This history doesn’t differ on other planets, and the following doesn’t differ either: for centuries the microscope-user’s head was turned down as he looked downard on some small specimin, while the telescope-user’s head was turned upwards looking at far-away planets. Since this history of ours in all likelyhood is the same as the history on other planets (it would be a joke if they looked at tiny specimins in the roof with their microscopes and had their telescopes pointed toward the ground), we draw the sizerange diagram with “up” representing “large” and “down” representing “small”. Other planets would’ve also posed the question “which parts of this diagram are universal and the same on infinitely many intelligent planets?” and would’ve come up with the same conclusion: our knowledge about the large came from men whom had their necks bent backwards looking upward, and our knowledge about the small came from men leaned over looking downards – and so it is on other planets and thus those planets (in wanting their scientific world-view to be as universal as possible) represent large upwards and small downwards on the sizerange diagram.
The only reasonable axis left to put the time-axis on is the horizontal one:
In total we get a square (a two-axis diagram) where both axises are contiuums but for human understanding’s sake it is worthwhile to split these continuums into distinct parts so that objects (galaxies, humans, atoms) can be shown as pictures within the parts made distinct in this continuous diagram:
Now we are going to touch upon one of the pillars/foundations for the existential theory: is the sizerange infinite or not? In other words: is there infinitely small and infinitely large?
1: The conclusion gained from juxtaposing separation with intertwinedness led us to conclude that intertwinedness is one (all is part of it) – it other words: is has no distinctions such as limits or borders. Something without distiguished phenomena (Reality) would have distinctions if it had an upper-limit to size, therefore it doesn’t have an upper limit to size. Phenomena that distinguish one part from the other (such as a limit to size i.e. a border) would negate the proposition that the Reality/intertwinedness we are talking about is the Reality/intertwinedness – if it had borders it would fall into the realm of separation (which is the opposite of intertwinedness). The opposite of separation – call it “non-separation” – doesn’t have separation in the form of limits/borders. The sizerange is infinite.
Here is a metaphor which of course not helps in seeing Reality/intertwinedness/oneness (the opposite of separation) as nothing does, but which reveals something about the nature of reality:
imagine the densest gray solid replacing every particle of mass and filling every void of space. This gray solid is everywhere and there is no way to orient yourself in this gray solid: you can´t distinguish up from down, nor one object from another. In fact, there are no objects but only the gray solid.
If the gray solid would include/intertwine you into itself you would no longer be an observer; no longer separate.
Think about this. Does it make sense for this gray solid to have a maximum and minimum size? I.e. if in this non-separated gray solid there is no separation, can one size be separate from another by it being the maximum or minimum and other sizes non-maximum and non-minimum?
No – and therefore the sizerange is infinite.
2: Einstein’s theory of relativity proved that no point in space is supreme/absolute – they are all relative to another. There is no center of the universe. Einstein was talking about space, but his reasoning can be expanded because size is just another form of space: there is no supreme/absolute/center size. Each size should be equivalent to every other size in that none are absolute. Empiricism i.e. our sense-impressions tell us that the human size looks to be approximately the center size because theres an equally big leap in amplification of the human size get to the largest known size, as there is an equally big shrinking of the human to get to the smallest known size. A finite sizescale represents the prospect of finding the “absolute center size” and that goes against Einstein’s theory of relativity according to which both space (and its cousin size) are not absolute, they are relative – there is no center size but there looks to be one as we have limits to our knowledge about the rest of the infinite sizecale. Those who believe in a finite sizescale believe themselves able to easily calculate the “center of the sizescale” and thus find what contradict with Einsteins theory about relativity of space (and size). Space and size are identical (they both can be three-dimensional) so Einsteins theory of “no space is the true center” must also apply to size, meaning “no level/size in the sizescale can be a center”.
3: Mathematics easy zoom out into infinitely large numbers and zoom in on infinitely small numbers; the integral can use infinite large zoomed-out sizes and the derivative can use infinitely small zoomed-in sizes. Whether this relates to the question “is the sizescale infinite?” remains to be discussed – its a discussion about mathematics and nature relate and there hasn’t been a definitive answer about whether an infinite number means that infinity exists in the world world. Regardless I wanted to include mathematics in my collection of proofs for why I think the sizescale can be proven to be infinite – some it will convince and some it will not. The layers of the sizescale are just begging to be numbered: from the smallest/lowest layer to the highest/largest layer. Number is infinite and continuous and so too is the sizescale.
4: Is the relationship between any two sizes an unbreakable law of nature? The relationship is “justification” or “makes sense of…” An atom justifies a molecule and a molecule justifies an atom – either would be unable to exist without the other: their sizes (molecule being larger) have a relationship called “justification”. The
size
of a tomato justifies the existence of the
size
of a melon and vice versa.  They don’t make sense without oneanother’s sizes. Let’s take the smallest known size (the Planck-length (1.6 * 10
-35
meters)) and build a size the smallest increment larger than that. The relationship of “justification” held. Now repeat this building-process incrementally one Planck-length at a time until you’ve reached the largest known size (the visible universe). How many increments did that take? I’d say: so many that the relationship between any two sizes – the relationship being that one size justifies another and vice versa; one size makes sense of another and vice versa – in this experiment, proves the relationship between any two sizes as firmly as the law as Newton’s universal gravitation has been proven. Could it be that at some (the very largest) size this law of justification inbetween sizes is broken? That would be the case if there was a maximum size with nothing larger justifying it. If you believe in a finite sizescale you must accept that the size-to-size relationship of justification is a law of nature only for a finite range of sizes (and so not a real law of nature because it is broken at the maximum and the minimum). If you believe in an infinite sizescale then the size-to-size relationship of justification is a law of nature (that continous with the infinitely small and large). This argument is all about whether you regard the relationship between two sizes as a law of nature or just something that is true everytime we inspect it but the universe can diverge from it (“break the law”) thus producing a maximum and minimum size (i.e. a finite sizescale).
I ordered these arguments with the most convincing first and the more dubious last. It’s sufficient that you agree with at least one for you to believe that the sizerange to be infinite.
Next we’ll examine which fruits fall from the tree of having proven that the sizescale is infinite. One fruit is sour and its one of the pillars/fundaments to the existential theory, the second fruit is sweet and proves that there are infitely many extraterrestrials (even in places we didn’t know they’d be).
The Sour Fruits
There are three pillars/fundaments to my existential theory. One we already talked about: the existence of separation in intertwinedness; the opposites combined. Eventhough I’ve been working with the separation-intertwinedness-clash for years, I still feel like proving to myself once more that it still is true – its such an unintuitive way of thinking that I feel like checking once again that it still holds true. It does hold true every time and we can call it “the unthinkable thought” because it’s:
“the” = one. Reality is singular.
“unthinkable” = neither brainhalf can capture it; it can’t be captured as a word nor an imagination. Nothing represents it eventhough words can refer to it.
“thought” refers to our subjectivity, reminding us that we are working with thoughts and that none of these thoughts represents all of Reality. No matter how much in our favor we define the word “represent” nor how much we represent, comes close to outweighing the infinity of the sizescale derived from the fundamental separation-intertwinedness-clash.
The first sour fruit – the first pillar/fundament – of our existential theory is thus the unthinkable thought i.e. the separation-intertwinedness-clash. If we want to examine why separation itself exists, we must include and conclude that it is together with and bound to its opposite: intertwinedness. Without intertwinedness no separation and vice versa. We can call this “the invisible pillar” because the reasoning required for it elevates our minds to the level of talking about the unthinkable thought.
We’ve talked about how reasoning about separation plus intertwinedness summons the concept “the unthinkable thought” and that it proves that the sizerange is infinite. We thus have two out of three pillars of our existential theory: the one we haven’t looked into in detail is the “energymasspacetime”-part.
The first thing to note about this picture is that “separation + intertwinedness” is synonymous with “the unthinkable thought”: the unthinkable thought led us to “an infinite sizescale” but since the unthinkable thought itself, by being the separation-intertwinedness-clash, is also one of the pillars/fundamentals to the existential theory.
Another of the pillars of the sour existential theory is E=mc
2
: The E=m-part (energy equals mass-part) of the equation involves energymass. Because a speed is a distance (which is space) over time, the c
2
-part (speed of light squared-part) involves spacetime. E=mc
2
involves both energymass and spacetime. E=mc2 is energymass and spacetime in the same equation.
E=mc
2
intertwines energymass with spacetime, giving rise to the word “energymasspacetime” as a synonym for Reality. It is impossible to have movement without something moving (unifying energy and mass) and movement requires space and time (unifying energymass with spacetime). The main discovery derived from E=mc
2
is the fact that Reality is one i.e. energymass and spacetime are in the same equation.
Energymass is a synonym for “everything” and spacetime is a synonym for “nothing”. In the E=mc
2
-equation energymass and spacetime are joined with a multiplication sign.
Nothingness is “a priori” meaning it doesn’t need a prior reason/justification “for its existence” – because it doesn’t exist: its very definition is nothing. Our brains can confuse us regarding this if we don’t keep apart our brain-cell (and therefore energymass) –based representation of “nothingness” from nothingness itself; separate the map-nothingness from the territory-nothingness. I usually say “nothingness is emptier than you can imagine it”.
Most would agree that 1=1 is an equation inherent in spacetime; the universe cannot be absurd even if its empty. If there were a triangle Pythagoras’ theorem would apply to it. Laws of nature are true even in empty space.
Do you believe E=mc
2
is a law of nature which is true about nothing/non-existence just like Pythagoras’ theorem or 1=1 was? I do, and thus energymass is “mentioned” in non-existence (nothingness/non-existence, like we said, does not need prior justification because it is an empty framework with its laws of nature).
If energymass is mentioned in nothingness but not summoned, reality has basically made small talk or empty chatter – it “talks about” energymass without there being any substance to it. If this sounds impossible, the only resolution is for energymass to be summoned (i.e. made into existence).
As soon as there is nothing/non-existence (which does not need justification) there are laws of nature (such as E=mc
2
) and energymass is mentioned, and as soon as energymass is mentioned energymass is summoned.
Thus we can conclude that the universe can only go an infinitely short amount of time (i.e. no time) before nothingness summons energymass. Should energymass be summoned in one place before another location? Einstein’s theory of relativity suggests “no”, but a more convincing argument is that it should be summoned in infinitely small spaces because E=mc
2
is mentioned in the infinitely small spaces. This means that energymass or the big bang starts infinitely dense.
Infinitely dense energymass is summoned in infinite spacetime and splits apart as hot things do.
The mechanism for re-creating the big bang is for the universe to become less dense until the density is zero i.e. the universe is empty. The universe accomplishes this by accelerating cosmic expansion and black holes.
If the density can reach zero i.e. if our three dimensions of space no longer contain any energymass, then what is the purpose of the law of nature “E=mc
2
” which must be true even in empty space? As soon as there is zero density i.e. perfect emptiness energymass can be and is summoned. It begins as infinitely dense because it is summoned in the smallest spaces simultaneously. Every nook and cranny of infinite emptiness is filled all at once because E=mc
2
(and the summoning) is true everywhere at once.
Why something rather than nothing? Because nothing – which does not prompt the question: “why does nothing exist?” (Because it doesn´t “exist”) has the laws of nature which include E=mc
2
. In nothing existence is allowed.
If existence existed in something other than nothing that would be absurd; impossible. Existence exists as an infinite sizescale of one in zero (energymass in spacetime).
To summarize: E=mc
2
– or energymasspacetime if you will – “everything and nothing in the same equation” is one of the pillars of the existential theory. Another pillar is the infinity of the sizerange. Yet another pillar is that separation happens in (or is “multiplied with”; “intertwined with”) intertwinedness; eventhough separation and intertwinedness are opposites, they are still together.
This three-pillar (“three sour fruits”) existential theory leaves us with an infinite sizescale of energymasspacetime (with separation + intertwinedness), and somewhere in such a “thing” (I’m primarily simplifying and referring to the infinite sizerange) there was a reproducing shape and thus evolution. In fact: there should be infinitely many subregions of the infinite sizerange where reproducing shapes occur: but they all dwell inside the existential theory that I’ve just laid out, meaning that if they can possibly access science and do, the same theory presented here will dawn upon them too. We have cosmic brethren not only as extraterrestrials on infinitely many planets in infinite space, but we also have “reproducing regions of the sizescale” infinitely many times in the infinite sizescale (meaning regions where a reproducing shape can occur).
On other planets too they’d use the same picture:
to prove that the sizerange is infinite:
and there too they’d represent large/small as the up/down directions respectively due to their history of microscopes and telescopes, leaving the horizontal axis for time:
And they would derive their morality from their evolved need to conform to the “group” (social pressure): the group being infinitely many extraterrestrials with an identical set of ideas and associations between them – as the brain wiring (“culture”) we gain from science. Their morality thus is to advance and spread this universal science.
Does the energymasspacetime-sizescale (existential theory) give morality? When we contemplate where we live – among infinitely many similar aliens (with same science and similar evolutionary history and thus brain circuitry) – and feel the peer pressure to conform to them (the majority), we can’t do anything but spread science.
God
“As the great physicist Laplace said when he demonstrated his working model (his orrery, as it’s called) of the solar system to the emperor and Napoleon said, ‘Well I see there’s no God in this system,’ and Laplace said, ‘Well, Your Majesty, it works without that assumption.’” – Christopher Hitchens
The existential theory begins from assuming nothing (nothing = spacetime) and logically builds upon it until reaching an infinite sizescale and thus the start of evolution: a reproducing shape. It doesn’t need any additional assumptions such as God – but we might have found a synonym for a certain kind of God: the unthinkable thought / Reality. Afterall, separation plus intertwinedness are such primitive concepts that the conclusions arising from them could’ve been and propably were realized in the very infanthood of the human race. You can imagine a caveman or primitive proto-human/monkey pondering the most overarching (Reality = that of which all is part) and then its opposite or perhaps Descartes’ most personal self (and thus separation). Then the idea would’ve been formulated in the most advanced language to them (which is primitive/unscientific to us moderns), and we had a word like “God” instead of the more descriptive “the unthinkable thought” or “energymasspacetime-sizescale”. Then people added to this concept ideas like talking to it, it talking to a self-claimed prophet; dogmas, rituals and laws. It does have certain “dogmas” which is science; it has certain “rituals” like the diagrams shown in this book (which can be drawn as hand-signs); it even has morality because infinitely many extraterrestrial see their evolved social conformity-instinct pushing them to unify the world into one scientific world-view (producing and spreading science).
It’s ironic that we have the saying known by everyone: “holy shit!”, eventhough we don’t have a thorough science of why our brain reacts to and has created that statement. It joins the very greatest with the very smallest (or some would say: most personal) – its the most gigantic contrast you can linguistically create and is so close to the “intertwinedness-separation = unthinkable thought = existential theory”–scientific theory. Einstein, by presenting E=mc
2
which unified energymass with spacetime into the opposite of separation, and Descartes by presenting “I think and I exist and that is separation” are a fancy way of saying “holy shit”; or if you will: the divide between the divine and earthly. The medievals obviously possessed this science but had added a lot of clutter to it which was based on ancient promises (revelations), and they had a vaguer vocabulary for presenting it than I have.
How would you summarize what you’ve read so far? You’ve defeated a false god/religion; you’ve found the core of religions; you’ve got an existential theory which “doesn’t need that (or any) assumption”…
We can expand this theory to the topic of morality – in essence “doing what extraterrestrials do (because they derive their belongingness-to-the-group-behavior from science too)”; we all thrive to be “universal” as much as we can – first culturally and then genetically. The only thing needed to derive morality from the existential theory is to understand how evolution led from the first reproducer to the social behavior of wanting to belong culturally to a “stronger majority”/”the winning team”. We are evolved to seek power in numbers (to be flock-dwelling instead of individualists) and we refined that trait to want to become allies with whoever will turn out to be the winner in the future; the universal culture presented in this book is both superior in numbers (science tends to find a path towards it) and it is the culture that will “win” (because a logical ideology tends to become mainstream).
Instead of asking “what would Jesus do?” we can ask “what would infinitely many extraterrestrials put peer-pressure on us to do, based on that they like science?”; we have a trait that makes us want to fit in with the “winner’s team” and this scientific culture is that winner’s team – the winner being any civilization that has come this far in science.
I don’t expect you to understand this diagram in this one go; in a programming book its worthwhile to present some source-code early in order for the reader to get a glimpse of what one will be dealing with later.
The mind diagrams (H,D,E,F,I,J,G) are connected to the evolutionary sets of unfolding principles (A,B,C). When finding a trait or function of the brain (in humans, say) the full answer that explains that function/trait is both evolutionary (the triangle) and anatomical (the mind diagrams (H,D,E,F,I,J,G)). The only evolved & anatomical function we need to understand is that we want to belong to the winner’s team; this arose after we became flock-dwelling animals but before a more recent trait like abstract language arose (let’s say this is line B in the evolutionary triangle and in the region J in the proof-checking mechanism (left and right brainhalf) and the category E (the social circuits) in the hard-wired lower part of the brain (and it is also in G but that’s a sidenote)). The circuitry for joining the stronger group comes from the principle in evolution that “teams tend to out-compete individualists in fights”; we use that trait of ours to join the universal team by learning universal ideas.
Evolution and the mind-diagrams allow us to understand one brain/person, and in order to understand two or more persons we just add more copies of the same general mind-diagram (with its own unique history in the triangle-shaped diagram). This has us on the verge of understanding large groups of people: societies, countries, politics, what to vote for (if we do the further task of predicting the future of all these brains)… I don’t think anyone can claim to understand, however, using this science, the entire world’s population and its best interest (with clashes between long-term and short-term benefits of two different rivaling politics, or clashes regarding left-and-right-wing class-politics). Jon Stewart would insert a joke here saying something about that: “I can barely understand my own brain for a moment (using this diagram/science); sometimes two or three brains during the next emotion; and the world is arguing about billions of brains for thousands of years with fundamental clashes which lead to even more uncertainties. And the argument doesn’t sound like the nitpicking scientific discourse about a topic cluttered with unknown events – instead everyone is so certain of their position”.
What I’ve developed and point to is the right path (to understanding things like “what to vote for”), but I haven’t developed a billion-brain complex diagram of the entire future of the planet and that’d obviously be impossible for me. For some, what’s frustrating about politics is that one is forced to vote (not going to the voting booth is in essence the same as voting for all parties equally) eventhough one is not ready for the nitpicking extremely complex anatomy-involving predictions required; the forcefullness in pushing people into the system is what makes it frustrating. One thing one can vote for though is to invest in DNA-research and –engineering so that we can come to terms with this anatomy that we’re dealing with better.
The extraterrestiral diagrams
Morality
I heard that in the USA its a virtue to try to become rich. Its an inate instinct to want to accumulate resources ad infinitum, but the USA has made it its leading ideology. That’s one ideology/morality… I know that science has its own morality which is to perpetuate itself, meaning those who adopt the scientific morality invest in furthering science. To me The Teaching Company (TTC) are “the big boys” (the most high-status group) and Donald Trump (the current presidential candidate) lives in an old paradigm becasuse he wants to make the USA richer because the USA is his group because its based on his christian-capitalist worldview – but that’s all going to change when a new non-christian scientific ideology replaces the old paradigm. I think people will invest their time in education that I give, and their money in projects that can be concluded, based on science, to be what the universe itself (or science) wants us to do. First among these projects is to educate all people into a single world-view, then investing in morally good projects like fusion, genetic engineering and sustainable energy.
My morality tells me that what is good is developing and working intellectually to cause as much global commotion using the pen as possible.
When I only had an existential theory and an account of evolution, my theory wasn’t engaging eventhough it crushed religion. Now my theory has morality (how people ought to act and invest in) and that’s as engaging as nazism was for the germans. I’ve made a scientific “what to do”-theory.
Sub-book November 2016
Religious undercurrents have been the reason for military spending for millennia. During the second world-war and the cold war religious conflict was put in the background, but emerged again with 9/11. Religion is learned and can thus be called culture. More precisely it’s a belief system about cosmogenesis, the place of humans in a larger context… – a world-view, put simply. To reduce military spending by reducing religious conflict involves convincing everyone of the same world-view. This world-view however lacks some of the positive aspects of religion such as talking to God (someone that listens), rituals and dogmas (like heaven). But like Hitchens said: “I’m not here to tell you whatever makes you feel good – I’m asked to debate what’s true”. Hitchens also said that the reason Obama invited Iran to join the family of nations was because Iran isn’t part of the family of nations – for the exact reason that Iran brings religion into geopolitics (it’s the ISLAMIC republic of Iran). The same can be said about zealous Jewish settlers, the conflict between Pakistan and India and so many other conflicts where religion plays a role in mongering hate. Hitchens believed that the main reason for hate in today’s world is religion. Convincing everyone of a thorough thought-out all-explaining world-view-diagram puts religion lower on the pedestal since logic trumps belief. If everything can be explained scientifically, religion fulfills the gaps left by science: “toys” to play with and rituals.
The second world-war was about finding the key to history: Hitler proposed that it was one race, Stalin proposed that it was one class – I propose that a single world-view is a step in the right direction. If everyone can share the scientific world-view – which is fastest and most clearly taught using a particular diagram – then the geopolitical religious conflicts will dissipate and the world will be heading in the right direction because a world unified in world-view is a key to progressing history.
The cosmogenesis-part of the diagram involves the Big Bang as one pillar and proving that the size-range is infinite automatically brings about evolution, putting the final nail in the coffin of both the evolutionary theory and of the Big Bang-theory. Today these two theories aren’t as widely known as they should be and they get argued against because they’re not presented in the “certain logic”-way of the diagram. The Big Bang-theory and the evolutionary theory are faulty in the way they are taught and this diagram-pedagogy should put the nail in the coffin so that the two theories are better understood and understood by a larger part of the world population than they are today.
Hitchens thought that we’d soon find out what happens when a messianic apocalyptic government gets hold of a weapon of mass-destruction. To reduce that fear – and the global military spending that comes with it – it’s worthwhile to learn and spread an ideology that rivals those of the second world war (Hitler’s one race and Stalin’s one class) – one worldview for all of humanity.
This diagram is the fastest known way of teaching all of science or at least the summarizing picture of all of science, and it’s also a permanent diagram in the sense that this world-view/diagram is unlikely to change in the next millions of years. Other planets where life is millions of years ahead of us in the scientific revolution this exact same diagram would be derived from the universal science they have access to.
At the most macro-perspective the diagram comes in three segments: the sizescale, evolution and the three mind-diagrams. The sizescale can be subdivided into all of the hard fields of science: cosmology, quantum physics, anatomy and so on. The second segment – evolution – can be narrated as a continuous coherent story where traits build upon previous traits resulting in an ever more complex animal (and this complexity-increase is represented by the triangle-shape). The three mind-diagrams are in two different levels because the third mind-diagram is the sum of the first two mind-diagrams: the two first mind-diagrams together becomes the third mind-diagram. The mind-diagrams are connected to points in evolution because anatomies in the mind arose as mutations in the DNA in evolution.
Is there more to explain than the infinite (of which part is knowable) size-continuum in which the human body is a particular size in the middle of the known sizescale, evolution and brain-anatomy? Everything – even words like God and Soul – can be understood in the context of this world-view/diagram.  There really is nothing that is left outside this diagram; everything fits in this diagram. The things inside human perception utilize the mind-diagrams (and evolution by proxy) and all real-world objects fit in the size-time diagram. This picture is thus in a sense a completion of the scientific mission – and it arose from having seen university-level courses about every existing subject. There is nothing more mysterious i.e. there is nothing that doesn’t fit into this diagram. It’s a complete world-view, though a cumbersome one because humans aren’t used to seeing their world-view as a picture in front of them – that’s the human bias: to not draw diagrams even though that is the scientific method.
Teaching this scientific method/diagram/world-view to the world-community would alleviate military tensions that arise from cultural/religious/world-view-differences. Military spending can arise from this list of reasons:
– One world one race (Hitler),
– One world one class (Stalin),
– One world one religion (9/11, zealots, terrorists),
– Economic differences (poverty).
The first two reasons are outdated but are further crushed by a scientific world-view, the third reason is my main target with this book, and I expect to have no impact on economic differences by publishing this science. Economic differences don’t warrant armies per se but are more suited to be controlled by police-forces – the difference between military and police are blurred when it comes to subduing violence that arises from economic differences. When it comes to religious extremism/terrorism combating it with armies has only proved slightly successful – appeasing phenomena like ISIS would’ve been devastating but the blasting power of modern explosives makes asymmetric warfare/terrorism have a biased advantage over traditional armies. The kind of asymmetric terrorism the world faces today cannot be combated full-out by traditional armies – there needs to be an ideological battle that goes to the root of the problem: religion. My book goes in-depth on how to create a logical world-view which is easily taught and learned, and which promotes a multiculturalism i.e. religious ambiguity regarding which rituals to perform and which dogmas to believe (if one indeed can believe any). My world-view offers a diagram which can be synopsized as a square (the size-time coordinate system), a triangle (evolutionarily increasing complexity) and three mind-diagrams on two different levels. This then offers an awkward hand-side where fingers are put in the shape of a square, a triangle and three fingers on two different levels. My “religion” offers a hand-sign consisting of three movements of the hands and a diagram that can be drawn on a t-shirt – but other religions offer much more ritual and dogma than my religion offers. I can understand the want to have more ritual than can be derived from science and it is up to private people to follow whatever rituals they choose, if they choose any. However in geopolitics there is no need to force others to follow rituals they don’t consent to; there’s no need to have military spending based on differing sets of dogmas and rituals. My book accomplishes that: removes religion from geopolitics, making geopolitics an academic discipline in which this diagram is best used for decision-making and bridging world-view-gaps. Once my science-diagram goes mainstream and reaches terrorists, the terrorists would have to argue against my diagram – and failing to do this they will no longer be terrorists because my diagram offers a full-world-view without a heaven and without a specific set of dogmas/rituals (other than the diagram itself and its derivative hand-gestures). Religiously driven murder will disappear once my book is understood and mainstream. Both the macro-level geopolitical waste of resources on military spending because of phenomena like religious governments (the Jewish state or the Islamic republic), and the micro-level terrorism and occupation of land are lessened conflicts if my book goes mainstream. Having “one world – one worldview” does that, and my book argues that the diagram represents the world-view that will be accepted as true millions of years from now and on millions of other planets that have science too.
This book might feel like you are going back to school, looking at coordinate-system diagrams, tracing evolution and looking at how circuits in the mind arose. This sizescalianism is its own -ism – rivaling Stalinism or Hitlerism – and thus it is for the greater good to make this book mainstream even though “philosophy” might be your cup of tea. Making this book mainstream is a military tactic which will defeat ISIS on an ideological level, so you’re basically lessening terrorism by reading and spreading this book. It will to most people be more of a duty than a leisurely pleasure – just like school was. This diagram is what will be taught in schools millions of years from now, and by learning it now it helps knock out terrorism and reduces your tax bill by reducing geopolitical instability due to world-view differences.
ATIWAAT
“… And this is what aliens also think”. This phrase can be repeated so many times in this book that it deserves its own abbreviation. In fact, both regarding individual ideas in this book and the general structure of this book, hopefully, the phrase “and this is what aliens also think” can be added – both referring to the idea at hand and the manner in which it is taught. Using ATIWAAT (the abbreviation for “and this is what aliens also think”) as a guiding star results in a teaching style and a taught message that is universal because it’s based on science. Scientific teaching and trying to say what aliens on other planets say are synonymous to each other. The only way we can approach what aliens think, feel, how they clothe themselves etc. is by using science i.e. deriving from “thin air” (or logic itself) what lies inherent in our universe. This then becomes a diagram in which multiple parts are known (such as the proportions of homeostatic to social circuits in our emotions) and some parts can be imagined in multiple ways (such as the sizescale being a size-time-diagram as a two-dimensional coordinate system but also a layered set of TV-screens – and a continuous size-range too).
In fact, each location with a %-symbol is calculated to be universal. This book can thus take the form of explaining exactly what is universal – and thus what aliens think on other planets – at each location where the %-sign is.
In this first cutout we notice three %-signs at the bottom signifying three categories of emotional (old-brain) circuits. Starting with the leftmost of these %-signs/categories we have the homeostatic circuits. This is “ATIWAAT” because on other planets they’d too distinguish between emotions internal to them and external stimuli coming through the senses. By having this distinction we have two categories – the two first %-signs (the second sign being social/external circuits). The third %-sign signifies a smaller category of circuits which are to be distinguished (ATIWAAT) from the homeostatic and the social/external circuits: these are the “cortex-idle”-circuits that become active when the cortex otherwise would’ve been idle and not useful. By having a cortex that activates itself when in – to draw a parallel to computers: when the screensaver is on – was an evolutionary benefit (ATIWAAT) because it allows us to plan for power, reproductive strategies (sexual fantasies) and plan for resource gathering. In other words: in our idle time males plan for how to climb upward in the socioeconomic hierarchy, how to accumulate more resource-value and reproductive strategies. Females also plan reproductive strategies but instead of trying to climb the hierarchy like males do they map out the hierarchy to find a partner with both status and loyalty. Females too plan for how to gather resources. These cortex-idle-activities utilize an otherwise inactive cortex – inactive because no homeostatic (internal) nor external need interrupts and awakens them – to do something useful. Evolution (ATIWAAT) favors those who rarely very truly idle but used their “idle” time to plan for social mobility, resource gathering, learning from remembered past mistakes and successes, predicting the future as accurately as possible (and we use this for developing out world-view/diagram/scientific understanding), etc. The cortex-idle category of circuits marked by the rightmost %-sign is a smaller number of circuits than the other two larger categories. In other words: we have quite a few tasks we start dealing with when we don’t have homeostatic nor social/external curriculums to be attended to.
Needless to say: this is an anatomical diagram which uses evolution to explain why the circuit exists as it does. It comes as a sizescale i.e. it can be zoomed into, all the way to the level of neurotransmitters and cells.
The large %-sign on the line that separates the upper box from the lower box signifies that our emotional repertoire consists of hard-wired (DNA-determined) circuitry while the upper box consists of flexible connections where DNA just enables the approximate skill handled by that cluster of neurons and allows for a great deal of flexibility in the wiring. The large %-sign thus signifies (ATIWAAT) the separation between the cortex and the old-brain; the hard-wired and the flexible halves of the brain. They are an upper and a lower box because the old-brain came first and is thus closer to the brain-stem and spinal cord, while the cortex (flexible part) evolved later and is thus further away from the center of the brain. Other planets thus don’t draw this diagram as a left-and-right box but the ATIWAAT-way to do it is to draw it as an upper box (away from brain-stem) and lower box (closer to brain-stem). The lower box is then separated into three (ATIWAAT) categories, the third (most recent one) being the smallest number of circuits (the “cortex-idle circuits”).
The sizescale
The sizescale is continuous and can thus be drawn as this:
The lower parts represent the smaller and the upper part the larger. Downward means smaller and upward means larger. When drawn as continuous the distinct sizes (or objects of those sizes) can’t be seen, so what we must do is to filter out most sizes i.e. select a few sizes and show them as if on TV-screens stacked from up to down.
Instead of representing time like a TV-screen represents time, one can “unwind the videotape” to put many sizescales next to one another representing time on the horizontal axis.
This size-time-diagram is a coordinate system into which every object of any time or size fits. Everything we can possibly imagine fits into some size and some time i.e. on one location on the size-time-diagram.
To account for the expanding universe (cosmic expansion) the size-time-diagram can be drawn like this:
In this picture you can see that the big bang is accounted for by the knowable sizescale becoming infinitely small at the lower left, then a period of fast cosmic expansion, then a decreasing rate of cosmic expansion, then accelerating cosmic expansion.
If the sizescale is infinite then there should be a reproducing shape somewhere in an infinite sizescale.
The %-sign in this part of the picture represents where evolution (the triangle) meets the sizescale. The touchpoint size-wise where the tip of the triangle touches the sizescale was approximately the size of the currently smallest life-forms.
An infinite sizescale
I already mentioned that evolution makes sense in an infinite sizescale – and the easiest evidence for an infinite sizescale is studying cosmology and assuming space is infinite i.e. the sizescale is infinite up-wise (toward the larger), and using Einstein’s theory of relativity to state that no size is the “absolute” size (but every size is relative to one another) it means that the human size is not infinitely close to the “bottom” of the sizescale. There is no bottom because space is infinite and no size is special (relativity).
There is however a more definitive proof that the sizescale is infinite. It relies on combining the philosophies of Einstein and Descartes into the conclusion that we cannot see Reality and thus that there is more to Reality than can be seen. “Seen” in this context means some symbiosis of contemplated and observed.
Descartes realized two things: that there is the thinker and that there is the thought. This division/separation between observer and observed / thinker and thought is exactly that: separation. The opposite of separation is unseeable but we can call it “intertwinedness” or oneness. Reality is such oneness as observed (excuse the pun) in the equation E=mc
2
. By writing Descartes realization that “there is thinker and thought (separation)” and Einstein’s realization that “Reality is energymasspacetime (all in the same equation)” on opposite sides of a paper juxtaposes two opposites: Descartes with Einstein; separation with intertwinedness.
It goes without saying that we are observers and thus in Descartes realm of separate entities – in other words we don’t observe all things as one because that would include an observerless state because the observer too shouldn’t be separate.
In a coming chapter on how the left-right-brainhalf proofchecking mechanism works we’ll return to the subject of “Reality (defined as “that of which all is part”) can’t be seen”, but suffice it to say for now that we have a natural apprehension toward the unthinkable.
This unthinkable whole is a size-time-diagram but is also infinite and thus can’t be drawn. It is not a location or region within the size-time-diagram but instead is the meta to the diagram. It is what some people call God. All-encompassing, unseeable and one.
Infinite justification
The sizescale is:
infinite (in length/size/larger & smaller) and
infinite justification.
The proverb is “everything happens for a reason” – the reason for everything happening is size-time-justification; whatever happens is justified in size and time.
We’ve already looked at the size-time-diagram (the sizescale), and it is worth pointing out what the relationship between the layers/sizes is: it is justification. The smaller justifies the larger and the larger justifies the smaller. “Justifies” just means “makes sense of”, in the sense that atoms make sense of molecules and molecules make sense of atoms. They justify oneanother’s existence; they’re the reason for eachother’s existence. If the sizescale is infinite justification size-wise (both upward toward the larger and downward toward the smaller) then that is one of the two pillars of the existential theory: the reason why there is a sizescale in the first place is that the “first reason” keeps retreating infinitely low/high in the infinite sizescale.
Lines between evolution and the mind-diagram
The mind diagrams (H,D,E,F,I,J,G) are connected to the evolutionary sets of unfolding principles (A,B,C). When finding a trait or function of the brain (in humans, say) the full answer that explains that function/trait is both evolutionary (the triangle) and anatomical (the mind diagrams).
This all of course happens in the sizescale (visually connects to the sizescale-diagram) but on a different level in the depth-dimension.
Sub-book years 2011-2016
The brain: how does the human brain work, think and anticipate?
Preface
The world needs science to bridge the gap between different cultures, different religions. This book presents that science.
Introduction:
The Anatomy of History
The history of your day today can be understood as the universal human behavior interacting in its environment. If we understand the anatomy of the human brain, we can understand what it is that causes behaviors – for example hunger evolved for obvious reasons and every day hijacks our behavior for food-seeking.
It is the anatomy of the brain that drives us to seek food, thus not only leaving records in our immediate experience if we are currently eating, nor only in our memory if we have recently eaten, but also historical and archeological records of feeding. Thus Napoleon´s actions were guided by the anatomy of the human brain. I will argue that all of every humans´ behaviors can be understood in anatomy; in a best-case scenario, by looking at images from microscopes that show the anatomy of issues needing understanding urgently such as [wanting power] or [religion].
This text will be somewhat of a list, but will follow the following scientific method:
The evolutionary reasons for this behavior to be selected for once it has mutated into the genome, will be presented using case studies. These case studies are situations and scenarios that repeated over and over again where the organism with the mutation in question survived or reproduced (or had reproducing offspring) better than those lacking this particular mutation.
Once the benefits from the mutation have been illustrated in one “caveman-scenario”, the same general scenario is to repeat generation after generation in order for the mutation to have made it into our modern genome.
Once we know what the cortex (the learning, flexible part of the brain) is to be requested to do (as is the case in all behaviors except reflexes), we try to engineer a circuit out of brain cells that will be in the hard-wired (genetically determined; non-learning) “old brain”.
The keys to building these circuits in order to see how evolution could have built them, is to aim for simplicity because mutations create simple changes. What is the simplest possible old-brain circuit that can accomplish the urge in the way we experience it? What input (internal or external) triggers the particular old-brain circuit and what output (emotion) does it send into the cortex?
We then validate the theory by seeing if a circuit of that kind could generate the cortical activity we observe within ourselves and others, by seeing what evolutionary success-stories of the past explain the circuit.
Every one of these theories should fit into the model of:
Reproduction (of any shape, be it a DNA-like shape) leads to the three major evolutionary principles:
1) those who survive survive (knowledge of life vs. death).
2) the number of offspring matters (knowledge of the difference between integer numbers).
3) mutation happens between generations (children differ from parents).
The next principle arising from the previous three, is that “power matters”, meaning that if you can make others produce your offspring, you gain benefits in accord with principle 2 (number of offspring matters). A caveman king could have 50% of all women as his sexual partners because he had found a way to suppress the sexual access to women of other males, thus that kind of power-hungry genome continued; by exploiting principle 2.
With principles 1 (survival), 2 (children), 3 (change) and a) power, applying to DNA-like molecules floating in the primordial soup of the early earth, we would expect dinosaurs to soon look as they did. There is a certain inevitability for dinosaurs (fearsome giant lizards) arising if evolution is allowed to go on for long enough; they are a blatant manifestation of power being an evolutionary principle.
Among similar creatures living in over-population and competition, cooperation arising allows the cooperators to out-compete any individualist in fighting. In the context of cooperation, a hierarchy forms because power is an evolutionary principle. Evolution then favors larger and larger cortexes, generation after generation, because strategic planning is the way to gain favors from and surpass superiors, and establish power over inferiors.
The context might be after a meteor strike that kills off all the large dinosaurs, or because the global flesh-to-vegetation ratio kept becoming more and more unbalanced until the vegetation ran out and thus the flesh died, leaving only small creatures just like after a meteor strike. Whatever may be the case on any one planet, it seems like an ever enlarging cortex is the result of groups having formed (like wolf packs) and then hierarchies having formed where the memory-prediction ability of the cortex leads larger cortexes to rise higher in the hierarchy which is synonymous with having more offspring.
In the beginnings of evolution power is an evolutionary principle because it arises from the exploitation of the “number of offspring”-principle (principle 2), and that such exploitation leads some participants in evolution to evolve counter-measures (an immune system) and further elaborate the counter-measure (sexual reproduction leads to more mutation than asexual reproduction; an immune system needs as much mutation as possible to stay up to date). Multicellularity must thus also be an evolutionary principle, because multicellular organisms can have immune systems and sexual reproduction, which protects against parasites´ power (principle 4). Multicellular two-gendered immune-system yielding animals then grow larger and larger because males compete over access to females and we get dinosaurs. Then we get wolf-packs out of the survivors because groups out-compete individualists. Then the cortex grows larger due to power struggles within the flock. That’s why we have humans. Then humans in groups fighting with other groups invent Gods as their military commanders because that causes mutiny and fear in the rivalling clan; then someone pondering the separation-intertwinedness-question invents “just one God” and we get monotheism, but the military tactic of talking to Reality remains. Then science comes along and says that Reality is an existential theory based on three pillars: separation-intertwinedness-opposition, an infinite sizescale and energymasspacetime, and the talking to God, miracles, dogmas, rituals etc. disappears and the world unites into a single scientific world-view.
Anatomy of history
The world-view is a three-part diagram. In the below the three parts are numbered. From part 3 (understanding of the brain) arises a universal morality which refers back to the diagram as a whole (meaning science perpetuates science; other plants find scientific endeavors “universally moral”).
Diagram 1
is the sizescale. Imagine that you are a body in a range of size, meaning that there are smaller sizes than your size and there are bigger sizes than your size. Let a diagram or graph represent size from up to down, for example the larger sizes can be upward and the smaller sizes downward. If our smallest known size (the smallest size we know) is at the very bottom of the sizescale and the largest size that we know is at the very top of the sizescale, then the human is approximately in the middle.
The sizescale is the way to represent all of the nature sciences (like cosmology, quantum physics, biology etc.) so that they all are united. Size is their uniting “principle”.
One thing that should be proved about the sizescale is that it is infinite: that there are infinitely small and infinitely large sizes. The way to prove this is to think about the meaning of Einstein’s E=mc² and Descartes’ ”I think therefore I am” simultaneously. Descartes was able to prove that there is/are thinker and thought: two statements. One: thinker. Two: thought. Therefore there is separation: there are many different “entities” such as thinker, thought and the separation in between them. Einstein’s statement unified energy, mass, space and time. In fact, in E=mc² you find energy equals mass times the/a speed. The speed: a speed is always distance over time, so spacetime (distance-time) is “mentioned” in the E=mc² equation. The c
2
-part involves spacetime. Therefore the E=mc² equation is energymass and spacetime in the same bundle; in the same conglomeration; in the same equation. It means that in reality energymass and spacetime are of course a single Reality. The definition of Reality could be [
that of which all is part
] (“all” being spacetime, energymass and equations themselves).
Because we are observers like Descartes said, Descartes’ kind of observation or separation creates a conflict with the unified nature of reality (the oneness of that of which all is part; E=mc
2
; energymasspacetime). The two are opposites. But how does this prove that sizescale is infinite? If we do observe all we can observe; if we contemplate all that can be contemplated; if we represent by any means “all of it”: meaning every single quantum particle in the entire visible universe – if we do observe everything we could theoretically observe – that is observation and that is part of Descartes’ specialty. Remember: the two are opposites; intertwinedness (the thing we’re trying to observe) is the opposite of separation. Separation comes into conflict with Einstein’s specialty which is unification. It means that observers cannot see Reality; separate entities such as observers cannot see that of which all is part; we as separate “representors” cannot represent “all there is”/”that of which all is part”/energymasspacetime. This makes sense because if you were to try to see that of which all is part you would have to be part of it, you would have to go into that which is in front of you. Therefore
that of which all is part cannot be observed
. This statement is very important because if you can observe the entire known sizescale and reality tells us that our observation is not all there is to Reality; no matter what we observe there is always more because what we observe is not that of which all is part. There is more to “Everything” than whatever be our notion of “everything”. So what could this missing part of the sizescale be? We do observe something (we are not blind; we can represent) and the statement “that of which all is part cannot be observed” is true so there must be a missing part which we cannot observe. The hidden part which we cannot observe is most probably a lengthening of the sizescale: sizes which we don’t know. Also, the sizescale being infinite gives a principle called
infinite justification
meaning that the question “where/what is the first cause?” cannot be answered because there are infinitely many sizes: the first cause always keeps retreating lower in the sizescale, deeper into infinity. That gives a good reason for why there is size in the first place: the sizescale is infinite.
The proof  “try to have Everything/Reality/Energymasspacetime in front of you, and you’d have to jump toward and into it – thus you cannot see it” is an intuitive but weak proof for the infinity of the sizescale – the stronger proofs are a bit more unintuitive (for example one of them deals with the fact that there fundamentally – regardless of observers – is both separation and intertwinedness in the universe, and that conflict between opposites proves, through many paths, that the sizescale is infinite).
Yet another reason which makes an infinite sizescale a possible theory is that we observe the change in size so many times between quantum physics and the visible universe: there are so many little changes in size possible between those two sizes. Each Planck-length adds another increment as we go from smallest to the largest. Why would the law that there is always something larger or smaller by the smallest possible increment be broken at two places in the sizescale: the very largest known and the very smallest known? This principle of size-change is observed so many times that it for empirical reasons may be considered a law of nature (laws of nature can’t be broken). So the limits of our knowledge (meaning the visible universe at the larger end of the known size-range, and a Planck-length to the smaller end) are two breaks in the rule that “all size is justified by more sizes”. That is an empirical proof for that the sizescale is infinite.
The point of proving that the sizescale is infinite is because today’s debaters get stuck on not having a verifiable existential theory, and thus the opponents argue that God is the existential theory. If the sizescale is one pillar in an existential theory we can get rid of God as a creator.
Transition to evolution
The transitioning from the first part of the diagram (the sizescale) to the second part (evolution) is that at one size there was a self-copying shape – in an infinite sizescale there must have been a reproducing shape in some size/sizerange. When there was a self-copying shape three principles came into play:
That there is life and death. Those who survive survive to the next generation and further on in time.
The number of offspring matters. The difference between having one or zero children to having five or six or ten.
There is mutation in each generation. Meaning that parents are different from children. As the generations shift the changes happen.
These three things are true today and they were true as soon as there was a self-copying shape in the sizescale. So first there was a self-copying shape in the sizescale, then (or simultaneously) the rules or evolutionary principles became applicable, then – because these principles govern the first life – soon after the first cells were diving there must have been parasites which reproduce by injecting their RNA into the previously talked about cells. This then could have forced the cells to enact countermeasures such as increasing mutation (exploiting principle number 3: that there is mutation in each generation). By increasing mutation you defend yourself from parasites, and a way to increase mutation is to have sexual reproduction (two genders). So parasites pushed the development of two-genderedness. When you have two genders and one of them spends more effort on the offspring than the other, we get the males to grow bigger in size because they compete with other males over the females – which is a possible reasons for the dinosaurs and also a reason for why the cortex started growing in cavemen: because it was used for planning how to get status/power. And status gives access to reproduction for several reasons: among them, that females want to help their offspring with material resources and it is easier to get material resources from a rich man than from a poor caveman. So women seek out the rich men and this pushes men to want to become the leader of the pack (in wolves, in caveman days, and today). This would’ve been true during millions of years of human brain-development. There is more to say about evolution but let’s transition from this second (evolutionary) diagram to the third one.
In the bottom of the third diagram (the mind-diagram) we have the cortex and the “old-brain” (also known as the limbic system – it is everything in the brain except the cortex). The cortex and the old-brain live in a symbiotic or mutually parasitic relationship: the cortex exists and is alive because it helps the emotions (the old-brain) to, for example, reach power. The cortex is useful for the old-brain and the old-brain is useful for the cortex.
You can view what happens in the brain using these diagrams: for example the old-brain, in its homeostatic circuits, is able to measure the nutrient level in the blood or the temperature and send an emotion to the cortex with the distressing feeling that temperature or nutrient-issue must be corrected. And thus the cortex is prompted or hijacked by the emotion to start planning for (which happens in the left-right-brainhalf diagram) or start executing an existing plan for increasing the temperature. This is an example of the homeostatic circuits, but there are two more categories of circuits recognized by all planets, in the old-brain.
The second category of circuits in the old-brain are the external and social circuits. For example, in a male, when seeing a girl who looks attractive the cortex is prompted to remember that there must be a plan or it starts executing a spontaneous plan or an existing plan in response to what came in through the senses. So a visual que can trigger an emotion and there are rather advanced emotions such as meeting the girl one wants to marry’s parents. That situation occurred so many times in caveman days that we have circuitry for what we want to accomplish or what our emotions push us to do in that situation.
The third category of circuits are the
cortex-idle circuits
. So when there are no significant external stimuli for the external/social circuits nor any particular homeostatic stimuli for the homeostatic circuits, the cortex should be (and basically is) idle. It doesn’t have to worry about the environment nor the internal state. An idle cortex is a useless cortex so evolution made us start plans for how to gather resources (work), how to gain power (climbing the hierarchy), or to think about the past (trying to learn from the past) or trying to predict the future neutrally, but mainly to create plans that increase ones resources or power in the future. So when we are idle we may engage our cortexes in what a caveman’s cortex would’ve been engaged in: planning evolutionarily beneficial patterns of behavior, planning how to gain power, how to work… This ability allowed the cortex to grow so quickly during a short time as seen in the brain-sizes found in the past hundreds of thousands of years in the archeological records. A bigger brain makes better plans, more detailed plans, makes plans faster so in every generation those with the bigger brains created more and better plans and executed these plans better and rose to the top of the hierarchy and the king gets more children.
Now we have looked at the relationship between the old-brain and the cortex (1) and different categories of circuits in the old-brain.
The second (2) part of this two-part mind-diagram looks at the left-right brainhalf situation. Why do we have a visual and a linguistic brainhalf? One way it can be utilized is that both pictures and words activated randomly and therefore are mixed in the visual brainhalf, so imagine in your field of vision there will be random visual concepts mixing, and what you’re looking for are plans to increase your power or your other evolutionary benefits. This system working during the long history of science means that when one man finds a combination of ideas that he can transmit to others, and this ability to pass information from generation to the next of this system of left and right brainhalf proof-checking and marking with a neurochemical those thought-patterns that were realized to be evolutionarily beneficial. Marking them perhaps with dopamine – the memory molecule. So the brain goes through random concepts (it’s also able to learn concepts from the past like in the history of science) and then it marks the true thought-patterns or neurons so that these are more likely to fire the next time. And then this whole idea is combined with other ideas in the visual brainhalf in order to find something that either improves ones world-view (which is of course helpful for an organism in a world) or is a plan leading to evolutionary benefits. Basically the old-brain prompts the cortex to create plans (to gain power etc.) and the way the cortex creates plans is to use pre-existing ideas about the world, adding a random new idea to it and if it is possible to imagine it is marked as proof-checked and remembered.
The third part of this mind-diagram (shown in this picture) is the cortex itself moment-to-moment. Imagine layers one after the other, and in each layer there are many choices. If you have learned about the reticular activation system you can imagine that there is a layer and on this layer is represented the different stimuli in the environment: there might be a cat and a dog and a computer and a car and maybe a hostile-looking man, and the reticular activation system puts focus on or chooses (makes a choice) to focus on “threatening man”. This reticular activation system works on the most initial levels of the cortex like being able to recognize simple shapes like lines, but the reticular activation system also works at the very highest levels of the cortex. So in your everyday decision-making process you end up in situations where you have many different options and imagine one layer choosing from the other layer (options being in the other layer). And from having chosen that, you can imagine the line or energy-flow goes to those neurons, to those options, and then your cortex predicts a new set of options. And again you try to logically look at all the options and you’ll probably find that sometimes there are emotions trying to make the choice, so one of the options might be bigger or highlighted because an emotion sees that as instant gratification or an emotion chose it.
In each jump from layer to layer (moment to moment) the function of the left-right upper-lower brainhalf diagrams is utilized; when making a choice we both use the old-brain biasing our choices, and the choices are based on proof-checked plans made in the left-right-brainhalf-system. Only once both upper-lower (old-brain) and left-right-brainhalf (planning/proof-checking) have done their job do we get from one layer (moment) to the next moment along the energy-flow-line.
So life is going from layer to layer, pausing at some layer, considering all the options in vast detail; the old-brain sending in some noise into the system by trying to push us toward certain choices. And I guess in some people’s lives the self-interest and the plans align very well so they might only in very extraordinary situations feel the mismatch between what one ought to do and what one feels like doing. That choice-making reticular activation system-based diagram of layers and energy-flows going through different choices is an anatomically accurate description because the cortex is a layered structure with emotions involved. But it is also on a plainly theoretical level a complete explanation of moment-to-moment life.
So the top diagram (diagram 1) plus the two other diagrams (diagram 2) is the brain. In the bottom diagram there are two diagrams: upper and lower brain meaning the cortex and the old-brain, and there is the left and right brainhalf proof-checking mechanism. Those two diagrams (diagram 2) have to be imagined together using the same mental tactic as in quantum physics when a wave and particle should be imagined as the same. And it does not end there: you must add the last part of the diagram: the cortex/decision-making process (diagram 1) to it all. All the described mind-diagrams together explain everyday actions/emotions/behavior. It is many such brains together which create history – science being the certain morality in history which all cortexes will learn one day.
The connection between this mind-part of the diagram and history-part of the diagram is that all the circuits (the emotions, homeostatic circuits, etc.) got into the brain because of history. We can look at where among the evolutionary principles (the triangle-shaped sub-diagram in the main diagram) a certain feature arose. This can both be done using archeological studies and also by moving very slowly from the very first evolutionary principles, through reproduction, through dinosaurs, through the cortex first being a way to do simple environmental manipulation, then becoming the complex, culturally modified decision-making process that it is today. And in the process we understand why written history begins with kingdoms, why men had organized as kings and why kings had so many concubines and wives while the slave has none. And also why men still strive for power. We can understand why military tactics begged for the invention of general-type Gods, and then reasoning about separation-intertwinedness led to the invention of monotheism.
The old-brain circuits arose in evolution before the cortical circuits and are hard-wired in our genome. Then cultural (cortical) circuits such as the circuits of democracy arose in response to there being kingdoms. Democracy is thus a counter-reaction to the evolutionarily created/determined social order called kingdoms.
Summary:
The provably infinite sizescale contains a size where reproduction happens. Step after step the evolutionary principles unfold and do so in a somewhat predictable (probabilistic) pattern – for example you might have predicted that the availability of university level lectures from all fields of science on the internet would create a world-view which everyone agrees on. The more one uses the three diagrams in the brain/mind the more one can categorize different behavioral phenomena one sees within the picture of the diagram i.e. see a diagram of each and every behavior which involves anatomy (circuits) and evolutionary history (a story of why such a trait evolved).
This image is an attempt to show all of science. Imagine how galaxies were 10 billion years ago in the upper left part of the sizescale (1), imagine how galaxies will be 10 billion years from now in the upper right part of the sizescale (large-future). Imagine evolution (2) beginning somewhat after the Big Bang and initially only having few principles applicable to it, later life became more complex (more principles and thus the triangle shape). Imagine yourself (3) as an emotionally influenced decision-making process that from moment to moment makes choices (the mind-diagrams). Imagine that new ideas’ validity is (mainly) predicted/determined by the visualization method in the left-right-brainhalf proof-checking mechanism and all of this, as a new idea, can be validated even though it is unintuitive.
Worth noting is that the current scientific problems are solved by this diagram: why did the Big Bang happen? Look at the three-pillar existential theory that begins from “a priori” (assuming nothing). An infinite sizescale explains why there is size. Energymass in spacetime (“one in zero”) – or rather energymass and spacetime intertwined as in E=mc² – explains why there is energymass/existence: it all exist in or together with Nothing. Imagine there being only Nothing in which the laws of nature apply – since E=mc² is a law of nature energymass gets mentioned even in nothingness. It would be absurd for the universe/Nothingness to “mention” energymass (i.e. to have the law E=mc²) without there being energymass. This would’ve been true in the smallest spaces, hence the Big Bang was as dense as can be (and dense hot things split apart in infinite space). This is the rationale behind the existential theory they use on other planets.
The dark matter and dark energy problems arise from confusing one layer of the sizescale with another. The solar system works differently than a galaxy – we must adapt our equations so that we don’t use the same equations for a solar-system sized object as well as for a galaxy-sized object. This solves the dark-matter problem (galaxies not behaving like our equations predict). It should be obvious that we need different equations for different sizes – just look at how different the human size is from quantum physics and how different equations we need for biology and quantum physics. The dark-energy problem is the same: “why does the entire visible universe behave differently than say a galaxy-sized region?” – of course it does, it is in a different layer in an infinite sizescale where every size is different from every other size. It is the nature of the sizescale to have everything (even gravity) change as a function of change in size.
The sizescale
The coordinate system means assigning numerical values to different points in space; using the coordinate system we can visually show the speed of a car (Y-axis) at many different times (X-axis) in a single image. Just like speed, size is a continuum ranging between small and large. The sizescale-concept means representing size along a distance in an analogous way.
The visible universe is the largest known as it consists of the largest number of cubic meters and is hence shown in a layer at the top of the drawn sizescale. A quark is among the smallest known things as it occupies the smallest fraction of a cubic meter.
The difference between the sizescale and the sizescale-concept
This book will prove that there are more sizes than the knowable ones; that there is more to the sizescale than the knowable sizescale; that the range of sizes continues beyond the limits of knowledge. Hence there is the need to have three distinct concepts: one for referring to the entire reality however many sizes it may consist of, another for referring to the knowable reality There is a difference between “the sizescale” and “the sizescale-concept”. The sizescale is the actual range in sizes which I will argue consists of infinitely small and infinitely large sizes. It is a synonym for Reality. The sizescale-concept on the other hand is the human endeavor of science; any concept is a mind-thing and is finite. The difference between the two is elicited by the question: which one is in the mind and which cannot be?
The definition of a layer
Because the boundary between any size and slightly larger or smaller is infinitely small, the sizescale is continuous. So is speed and yet a car’s speedometer has distinct numbers written on it; distance is continuous yet we arbitrarily and for our own convenience think about distance as distinct places/numbers. For convenience sake we choose distinct sizes from the sizescale. Because a stack of layers becomes a continuous structure, I will call each size which acts as a distinct part of the sizescale a “layer”.
The shape of a layer is arbitrary but what does matter is the size shown as or in the layer i.e. does the layer contain a galaxy or a quark?
Space has been proven to be infinite and because a size is a space and a layer is a size, each layer is defined as infinite 3-dimensional space. We cannot imagine nor see this but we can talk about it in language which is not very different compared to talking but being unable to see the infinite decimals of anything which’s accuracy we know to be infinite. Language penetrates where vision cannot.
Knowing this layer-aspect of the sizescale is something they ponder on other planets too; the sizescale is our tool and if we are to imitate our alien brethren we ought to read/write about specifics of the sizescale such as what we call “taking a piece of a continuous range, making it 3-dimensional space, seeing it as a finite object/space”.
The relationship between the layers
If someone asks: “why do molecules exist i.e. what justifies a molecule?” the answer is: “the atom” (and whatever is larger than a molecule). Without the atom there could not be a molecule just as there could not be a beach without the existence of grains of sand. The smaller justifies the larger. The opposite must also be true: the smaller needs the large to exist in; without the larger the smaller could not be justified.
“Size changes and justification go hand in hand”
The relationship between the layers of the sizescale is “justification” and “change in size (size variability)”.
Time in the sizescale
There are two possible methods of presenting time in the sizescale-concept:
Time can be shown as we see it in everyday life; each layer in the sizescale is like a TV-screen playing a movie. As a galaxy rotates in one layer, a human does something in another and molecules vibrate in yet another.
Time can be shown like in a timeline. In Descartes’ coordinate system points in space represent moments in time.
The observer of the sizescale
The observer (you) is one of the elements of the sizescale-concept. When you see the sizescale like in the above picture the observer is detached from the sizescale; there is space between the observer and the sizescale.
If the sizescale is counted as one “thing”, there are three “things” to notice in the sizescale-concept: the sizescale itself (the observed), the observer (you) and the spacetime between the observer and the observed. These three parts of the sizescale-concept are the “holy trinity” which is always present when the sizescale-concept is observed.
Does the observer watching the sizescale have a size? If every size is seen maybe the observer is of every size?
The standards
When Descartes invented the coordinate system he had to decide on a standard regarding which direction shall be called “negative” and which “positive”. He chose right and up as positive (for example the coordinate (2,1) is two units to the right and one unit upward).
As the inventor of the sizescale-concept I had to choose a few standards for the concept. Like with any standard we simply agree along which direction to represent what.
For example, what do we represent “upward” in the sizescale-concept? It can either be:
time (moments justify one another)
future or
past
or
size (sizes justify one another)
small or
large
here, I chose to assign upward the meaning of increase in size and downward decrease in size. The reason for deciding on this standard is because we need to make the standard as universal as possible. We discovered the large which we represent upwards by looking upwards (telescopes to the sky) and discovered the small by looking downward (you seldom see a person use a microscope with his gaze pointing upwards). Hence large is represented upward and small downward. It is thus not “my” standard but I base it off of the same rationale other planets would use for choosing their standard; this “I’ll do like other planets do”-method is the same we use to derive morality from the diagram/world-view.
If I choose to represent time in the timeline manner I assign left the meaning of past and right the meaning of future. This is based on the western way of reading and writing.
To summarize: vertical represents size and horizontal time.
Things to do with the sizescale
So far I have described what the sizescale-concept is, now it is time for how the sizescale-concept works.
There are the following 4 mental processes which can be performed on the sizescale-concept:
movement in space,
rotating a layer or layers,
flow in the sizescale,
give the layers names.
Movement shows different spaces
A layer shows a space of a certain size and if the observer moves the space shown in the observer’s field of view is from a different location. As there is relative motion between observer and object, different objects appear in the field of view i.e. in the layer.
Consider this example: if you move one centimeter the picture at the top of the sizescale (perhaps showing a galaxy) does not change much – the change is a difference too small to detect by a human seeing an entire galaxy. You moved a distance of 0.00000000000…1 times the diameter of the galaxy. On the other hand if you watch the lower layers of the sizescale (for example showing human cells) and move the same distance (one centimeter) you will have moved to a different cell and have a very different view.
Movement applied to the entire sizescale (the movement of one centimeter applied to each layer) causes more apparent movement the further down the sizescale you look.
Movement is one of the tasks that can be done on the sizescale-concept.
Rotating the sizescale applies the same rotation to every layer
Let us say you are looking at a galaxy from a particular direction. If you rotate the galaxy 180 degrees or if you move to the other side of the galaxy and rotate yourself 180 degrees, you’ll see another side of the same galaxy. If you rotate the entire sizescale 180 degrees the above would happen in the layer showing the galaxy and the same change would be applied to every layer – for example you would see a molecule from a changed direction. The same change in direction of view is applied to every layer if the sizescale is rotated.
Rotating the sizescale applies the same rotation to every layer.
Imagine replacing a skateboard with a sizescale – make it spin and rotate and watch the visions in each layer change.
“Flow” in the sizescale
I believe most people who learn about the objects of the different sizes automatically “flow” in the sizescale meaning they “slide” from one size to another. This can be accomplished by making the observer (you) smaller and larger i.e. asking “what would I see if I would shrink or be larger?” The most basic principle of education is to learn to flow from the largest known to the smallest known i.e. knowing something from each layer so that one’s knowledge builds a continuous structure (the sizescale).
Many people can express their knowledge of nature by telling you how many atoms there are in a cell, how large a cell is compared to an organ, how many people there are on earth, how far away earth is from the sun, compare this distance to the distance between stars, etc. By small increments you can “build your way up” from atoms to galaxies. The story can become quite long and you get into a mental state of “flow”. Hence I call such change in size “flowing” in the sizescale.
Flowing means spontaneously changing size.
“Flowing” is a mental process you can do with the sizescale-concept.
Give the layers names
Language is about making communication easier. Let us therefore give numerical names to the different layers.
We could call the size of a quark layer 1 or 0, an atom layer 2, a protein layer 3, a cell layer 4, a human layer 5, the planet layer 6, the solar system layer 7, the galaxy layer 8, the large scale structure layer 9, the visible universe layer 10.
The sizescale is continuous and any convention of giving sizes numerical names is arbitrary.
10 different pictures (10 layers) is what the human brain can quite easily imagine, and it – though being limited and a lite-version of the entire corpus of the sizescale – gives quite a good and continuous picture of Science.
Summary
The sizescale-concept is a straight forward, easy to grasp concept. Google Maps utilizes the concept in their software: you can move in space and change the size shown in the field of vision. The sizescale-concept had to be put on paper at some time in human history and as far as I know it hasn’t been done in the past, hence I put the sizescale-concept on paper.
Now I have given the full concept of the sizescale: the definition of a layer, the relationship between the layers, the ways to represent time and noted the observer (you). I have declared the necessary standards. I’ve given the toolkit for what can be done with the sizescale.
Below is the most complete picture possible of all of science (time is represented in the timeline-manner). It could be called “the wall-sizescale”.
If you add the evolutionary triangle to the middle of the above picture, and add the mind-diagrams to it all – then you’ve got the same world-view that they have on other planets.
The grey picture above is the square (upper-left = large-past) shown in this picture (which includes the mind-diagrams and the evolutionary triangle as arising from the sizescale).
An infinite sizescale
The following picture is what it means for the sizescale to be infinite:
The known sizescale ranges from cosmology to quantum physics. There are limits of knowledge (the floor and roof of knowledge) i.e. we do not know infinitely large nor infinitely small sizes.
The theory of an infinite sizescale (which is proven by “observing not all of Reality but indeed contemplating everything that can be contemplated (the known sizescale)) proposes that the pattern of justification (the relationship between layers) continues endlessly i.e. there is something infinitely much larger than the largest known and there is something infinitely much smaller than the smallest known.
If the sizescale is infinite then we must distinguish between two concepts:
“The knowable sizescale” which exists between the largest that can be known and the smallest that can be known. The knowable sizescale is every size between the limits of knowledge (i.e. quantum physics and the visible universe). Because the standard is to represent the large toward the upper parts of the sizescale, we could call the largest known “the roof of knowledge”. A roof is what ends a wall (the size-time-diagram is a square like a wall is). By the same token we can call the smallest known “the floor of knowledge”.
The second concept is “the (entire) sizescale” which I argue is infinite.
The knowable sizescale is part of the (entire) sizescale.
The existential theory based on an infinite sizescale
That the sizescale is infinite (toward the infinitely small and infinitely large) means that the pattern of justification (the relationship between the layers) continues beyond the known sizescale; the pattern of justification appears infinitely many times. The “layer x makes sense of layer y and vice versa” relationship continuous throughout the infinite sizescale.
A way of seeing this is to zoom out of the entire known sizescale, making the vertical size-axis part of an infinitely long sizescale. Because the sizescale is a representation along a space (up-down-direction represents size), you can imagine a finite length of space (representing the finite knowable sizescale) and then recognize that the length of space is but part of an infinitely long distance (meaning the sizescale is infinite).
This is an essential part of an existential theory; a theory that describes and explains why we (and the known sizescale that we are part of) are here; why they exist. The reason is simple: everything must be justified. Infinite justification; an infinite sizescale is a possible justification for human existence. If every reason why – which always is a size – has more justification then the sizescale is infinite.
Just like computers can create complex geometric shapes out of just a few lines of programming rules (fractals), let’s assume reality’s fundamental rule states that anything and everything that is part of this rational reality must make sense i.e. be justified. Assuming this rule of justification and noticing how each layer of the known sizescale justifies and extends the rule further leads to a rational reason for why there is a sizescale in the first place.
The question is “why the known sizescale?” and the answer is infinite justification. If the pattern of justification is infinite then there is no unjustified part of the sizescale whatsoever.
What justifies an atom? Quantum physicists study the answer. Quantum physics is just another field of science; it has a lot in common with every other field of science/layer of the sizescale, namely that there are masses which’s existence beg an explanation and as with any other layer the explanation comes from lower and higher layers in the sizescale.
If the sizescale would be infinite it would not contradict any known facts of science i.e. it would make sense if the case was that the sizescale is infinite; it is a rather beautiful theory. “The unthinkable thought”-concept proves that the sizescale is infinite. If the sizescale is assumed to be infinite it would solve questions that are unsolved if the sizescale is not assumed to be infinite, such as: “what is the scientific justification for why there is the sizescale?”, “what is the ‘edge’ of space – is space infinite?” and “is there something smaller than a quark?”
Philosophical reasons for the sizescale
One major objective in science and philosophy is to reach conclusions by beginning with known facts; logic can lead you far astray if you begin with the wrong assumptions, but more importantly for the topic at hand we don’t want the sizescale to be a tree without roots – what is its foundation? How do we reach the sizescale-concept by beginning with the most fundamental truths?
I think and I exist
Descartes was a philosopher in the 1600s, he was looking for certain truth (among the many different beliefs people had). He went about this by throwing all knowledge on the trash-heap of uncertain knowledge and whatever remained after all uncertain knowledge had been rejected must be certain knowledge. He imagined an almighty demon whose aim was to fool him in everything that he could possibly be fooled in. If any knowledge remained (if the demon couldn’t fool him about some knowledge) then that knowledge must be certain knowledge.
Descartes even doubted the existence of the world because it could be an illusion cast upon him by the demon (like in the movie The Matrix). Perhaps his consciousness is a brain in a jar with cables attached to it feeding it electrical signals making it falsely believe for example that  he has the rest of a body.
What knowledge remained and hence was certain after all his knowledge had been piled on the trash heap of knowledge? Descartes realized that if he were to be fooled, being fooled requires someone who is being fooled i.e. there must be an I for that I to be fooled. There is a self because the demon cannot fool someone if there is not someone to fool. “I exist” or “the I/self exists” his mind hence said as certain knowledge.
What other knowledge escaped the trash-heap and is certain knowledge? If I were being fooled in everything that I could be fooled in – being fooled is thinking. Hence I know that thought exists because thought is the very phenomenon and a necessity of being fooled. Descartes might have said: “if the demon was making me incorrectly
think
that…”, hence
thought
exists.
Descartes – and anyone following his reasoning – can claim two facts to be certain truth: “I think” and “I exist”. The thinker and the thought exist.
How do we move forward from the starting position that Descartes found for us? What immediately follows from the two facts?
We begin with Descartes’ two-fact starting position and notice the separation between the thinker and the thought. Reality lets us be able to claim both “I think” and “I exist”. There was not just one claim to be made; Descartes made two. This means separation between thinker and thought. Separation means distance i.e. space which means there can be different-sized objects. Hence size is variable. Hence we can take visions showing each size and stack them into a layered structure (the sizescale). Notice here how in Descartes’ reasoning there is no minimum nor maximum limit in size.
We could also look at the separation Descartes found for us and ask what its opposite is? “Intertwinedness”, “Oneness”, “that of which all is part”, “Reality” we might call it – but we cannot see it because as observers we are in Descartes realm. This leads to another synonym for it: “the unthinkable thought” because we are dealing with thought, the thing we are referring to (Reality) is unthinkable and the thing we are referring to is one (that of which all is part). If we cannot see all of Reality (but we can represent all we can represent) then there is more to the sizescale than the knowable sizescale.
Descartes
’
thoughts so easily lead to the sizescale; this is the sizescale
’
s philosophical foundation – the way to reach it by beginning with certain truth.
The ability to draw graphs
We have the ability to draw a graph in which speed is represented as a distance. For example the below graph could mean that a car was driving at 60 km/h for a while, then 20 km/h for a while and then 40 km/h for a while.
Because of this inherent ability to draw representations in which speed is represented as a distance we have the ability to draw a representation in which size is represented along a distance as a layered structure (the sizescale).
I find it fascinating that Descartes realized both “the thinker and the thought” (and the separation that leads to different sizes / the unthinkable thought) and the seemingly totally unrelated mathematical conceptual tool of assigning points in space numerical values i.e. representing numbers along an axis like size can be represented along an axis (the sizescale), which we call the coordinate system i.e. Cartesian coordinates.
The sizescale connects Descartes’ two inventions: the graph and “I think therefore I am” by adding the concept “the sizescale” and proving that the sizescale is infinite (which leads us to an existential theory).
Evidence for an infinite sizescale
There are several evidences that point toward that the sizescale is infinite. By evidence I mean one like on a crime scene: if you find a murderer in the act of murdering you have definitive proof (like the unthinkable thought or Descartes’ certain truth so swiftly leading to a sizescale and proposes no finiteness to it), but if you only find his fingerprints on the gun you have evidence. The following three evidences are not definitive proof but they are evidence for that the sizescale is infinite.
Limits of knowledge break a trend
How many times can the smallest known size be multiplied to reach the largest known size? An enormous number of times! The relationship between the layers is “justification” (atoms justify molecules). You could ask: “did the previous size justify the next size?” and the answer would be “yes” as many times as there are changes in size. The “pattern of justification” i.e. relationship between the layers i.e. “there is always something smaller/larger to justify any given size” is a law of nature because it is observed so consistently.
There are only two sizes at which the pattern of justification is broken: the very largest known and the very smallest known.
There are only two theories regarding this:
Theory A: is that the trend of justification is broken meaning the visible universe is not justified (by something larger) and quantum physics is not justified (by something smaller) unlike every other size is justified. This means the roof of knowledge and floor of knowledge are unique compared to every other size and exceptions to the law of nature that everything must be justified by larger and smaller. This would break with Einstein’s theory of relativity which claims that no point in space (nor any one size) is “absolute”.
Theory B: is that the trend continues outside our knowledge as a continuation of the sizescale beyond the known sizescale. If the sizescale is infinite then the law of nature that everything is justified by smaller and larger is true without exceptions.
The evidence and a pointer toward that the second theory is true is that the pattern of justification is observed so many times. When meditating on the vast number of sizes and the relationship between them (i.e. justification) it
feels
to me that the pattern of justification is an unbreakable law of nature. The limits of knowledge i.e. roof and floor of knowledge are limits of knowledge and not limits of justification.
Though not proof I consider this evidence for that there is more to the sizescale than the knowable sizescale i.e. the pattern of justification continues beyond the known sizescale, and the sizescale is infinite.
Another piece of evidence: a center of the sizescale
Another evidence for an infinite sizescale is that we find ourselves (the human size) approximately in the center of the known sizescale: almost exactly as large compared to the smallest known as we are small compared to the largest known. We are medium sized; the eyes are medium sized observers.
In cosmology, according to relativity, we can consider any location in space the center i.e. there is no center. Perhaps we can consider any size the center of the sizescale i.e. there is no center of the sizescale (hence the sizescale is infinite).
The current diameter of the visible universe is currently approximately 93 billion light-years or 8,79 • 10
26
meters. The currently smallest thought about length in quantum physics is 1.62 •10
-35
meters.
The quantum Planck-length divided by X equals X divided by 93 billion light-years.
X
2
= Planck-length • (8,79 • 10
26
meters).
X = 1.19 • 10
-4
meters i.e. approximately
0.12 millimeters.
The center of the sizescale (the medium size) is 0.12 millimeters. 0.12 millimeters is as small compared to the largest known as it is large compared to the smallest know.
This means that if you hold your thumb and index finger 1 millimeter apart, a little more than a tenth of the distance is the center of the known sizescale. For there to be a “middle of justification; middle of size” does not
feel
right.
Quantum physics is the floor of knowledge and has been even when humans did not exist (for example 13 billion years ago). If there had been humans 13 billion years ago with a particle accelerator they would have discovered quarks. But 13 billion years ago the visible universe was much smaller compared to its size today. This means that in the past the center of the sizescale must have been a smaller size compared to what it is today i.e. the middle of the sizescale was lower in the sizescale in the past. As the visible universe grows the center of the sizescale moves upward in the sizescale. If we assume there is a center in the sizescale (which I have disproven) then that center keeps drifting upwards sizewise as the universe expands.
Calculus
Isaac Newton lived in England and Leibnitz lived in France, both in the 1600s. Both claimed to be the first inventor of the mathematical concept “calculus”. Calculus is a category containing two concepts:
The derivative
The derivative can be done by choosing a point in the Cartesian coordinate system and infinitely near it choosing another point – infinitely near means the points are always closing in on one another. Look at the distance in between them – doing the derivative is zooming in (making the observer size smaller to see the ever shrinking distance between the two points). This is going lower in the sizescale.
The integral.
The integral is the flipside of the same coin: adding infinitely many pieces to make a whole hence zooming out i.e. making the observer size larger. This is going upward in the sizescale.
In mathematics the derivative/integral can be done infinitely many times meaning in calculus there are infinitely large and small sizes. Is the sizescale infinite like in mathematics? Fractals make the same point: infinity exists in the world of mathematics and thus should not be suspicious when applied to the sizescale.
Though not proof for that the sizescale is infinite I consider this evidence which relies on that you can have infinitely large (1000000…) and infinitely small (0.00000…1) numbers.
Summary
I have found three evidences – not proofs – that there is more to the sizescale than the knowable sizescale.
The first evidence was: the limits of knowledge (the largest known and the smallest known) break a trend/law of nature and that shouldn’t be broken because it’s empirically shown to be true over and over again.
The second evidence was: if the sizescale is finite then there is a center of the sizescale. Einstein’s theory of relativity allows no centers to space nor space’s derivative: size.
The third evidence was that mathematics describe infinity.
Do the three evidences in combination plus the proofs convince of that the sizescale is infinite? If so, we have an existential theory and we have a certain-logic-foundation-based educational path to a full world-view.
Proof that there is more to the sizescale than the knowable sizescale
Below are the proofs – the last word on the issue – for that the sizescale is infinite.
Reality is one
You have never heard anyone say: “reality is 0.5 i.e. reality is half” or “there are three realities”; Reality – defined as encompassing all – is one. The point I’m trying to make is so obvious that it might be elusive because of the very act of putting it in words. Reality is one.
What directly follows from the singular nature of reality is that it cannot be observed; if something by definition is one and hence lacks separation then a separate entity such as an observer which is required for observation cannot observe Reality and then Reality cannot be observed. An observer is a part and reality is partless. The opposition between Descartes and Einstein, separation and intertwinedness, “I think and I am, etc.” and “energymasspacetime”  – whatever you call it, the juxtaposition of the two opposites means that Reality is partless and cannot be seen.
In such a state of reality does it make sense for reality to have a maximum or minimum size limit? There is no everyday object that lacks maximum and minimum size and therefore metaphors and analogies are useless. It is simply in the nature of a unified, one, intertwined, all-encompassing “solid without parts” to not be subject to the magic ruler measuring the smallest or largest distance.
In a thought experiment you can shrink or be enlarged infinitely many times in the non-observable “thing” called Reality.
Reaching a limit in this unthinkable energymasspacetime feels like reaching a maximum numerical value which is impossible: number is infinite.
Does it even make sense to have a separate phenomenon such as “size” in the above described unobservable partlessness i.e. one Reality? In the realm of separation there are sizes, but in separation’s opposite realm there are no distinctions and thus no maximum nor minimum size – even the very concept of size as separate from something else becomes dubious.
That of which all is part cannot be observed
The situation can be simplified if you imagine a square that is made of four parts: the square represents the visible universe and the four parts are all its parts (every quantum-physical particle-wave). Then add the fact that you are part of the whole (you are a part). This philosophical fact makes observing reality from the (non-existent) “outside” impossible. The largest known – that of which all known is part – is the exception to the rule which states that if we can view it from within it we can view it from its outside too. Because of that, that of which all is part cannot be observed.
You can not detach yourself from energymasspacetime. You cannot have all of reality – that of which all is part – in front of you. You cannot see reality like you would any other object because you are part of it.
The Cartesian approach to this is the mind’s ability to say “I exist” and “I think” and the “holy trinity” in every observation, namely 1) the observer (thinker), 2) the object (thought) and 3) the separation between the two.
If you ever find yourself attempting to imagine reality “from outside” here’s a checklist for catching incorrect imaginations:
Ask if there is space between you (the observer) and the observed. If there is, know that all space is part of energymasspacetime.
Ask if there is an observer in the imagination. If there is (every observation has an observer), know that all observers are part of reality.
Any “observation of Reality” falling into cases a) or b) are false imaginations of that which we are trying to imagine, hence “that of which all is part cannot be observed” is a true statement, we get the concept “the unthinkable thought” as a synonym for Reality, and there is more to the sizescale than the knowable sizescale (there is more to Reality than can be contemplated).
We can observe something and this does not constitute an observation of that of which all is part.
Summary
Our relationship to Reality is like that of atoms orbiting a black hole: our whole existence is governed by it but we cannot see it. If we become it we can nevertheless not observe.
The thing in common about all proofs for that the sizescale is infinite / Reality cannot be seen is that they both require you to think about Reality as unthinkable. This is difficult for anyone to do – in history, people feared and refused to implement the concept of zero because they could not see it. What might help you in contemplating these sizescale-related ideas is the word “unthinkable”. Thinking can be defined as imagining and/or using language; we have two brain halves and one of them deals with imaginations and creativity and the other deals with language and reasoning. “Unthinkable” means that reality can be in neither brain half; reality cannot be captured as a thought.
The word “unthinkable” is meant as an adjective – it describes Reality. Hence the synonym we are creating for the word “Reality” thus far lacks a noun; we need to refer to something and not just have an adjective. There is after all something to be referred to: reality; the one, single, partless unobservable; the vast which lets us know we both can (in a limited sense) and cannot observe it.
The point of all this is to find a synonym for Reality: a synonym which relies on already existing language like in the following example: let’s say all linguists were wiped off of the face of the earth and hence we lacked words like “consonants” and “vowels”. We’d have to reinvent them. The positive side would be that we get a new chance and hence we can be smart about which combination of syllables we choose to communicate “the obstruction of airflow” and “the free flow of air” respectively. Those with a fascinations for cosmology – the enormous number of other planets that must have life – or simply those who believe in life elsewhere but earth might want to combine already existing words to build a linguistic structure which’s “shape” – not “content” – is identical to that in the minds of inhabitants of other planets.  If we decide to call what today is called “vowels” “the free flow of air” instead or some abbreviation of that we would be able to do something that is thought about on other planets; if we want to make our vocabulary as universal as possible we follow the above methodology. We use combinations of existing words as new words because it reminds us of the meaning of the word. This of often done in Latin/Greek where for example “republic” comes from “res” (thing) and “publicus” (public) which means “public thing”. I don’t suggest we force the words “vowel” and “consonant” out of existence because its too trivial of a change, but if we did we’d mimic other planets (whom chose their vocabulary to be as universal as possible).
When coming up with a synonym for Reality I decided – because my disposition toward is finding universal truths – that the synonym for reality ought to be “the unthinkable, thought!”
Here’s why: “The unthinkable…” refers to the in common feature in the all of the proofs: that neither brain-half can contain reality. “…, thought!” refers to where we find ourselves after thinking about reality in the above way, namely the realm of mind: noticing that all there is in realm of mind is the realm of mind itself. The realm of mind is where we always find ourselves when contemplating the thoughts presented in this book. To make thinking about this stuff easier I use the concept “the unthinkable thought” as a synonym for Reality; it’s a descriptive phrase/word/sequence-of-words referring to Reality which needs a descriptive referral-word because our brain anatomy is so unused to the unthinkable.
It is a scientific word; it has universal properties; it reminds a forgetful, lazy and imperfect mind of what it ought to think about; “how it ought to (not) imagine Reality”.
Descartes said “I think” and “I am”. If something is unthinkable there must be something for which/whom it is unthinkable; this must be the realm of mind. We can – as a mind – we have the ability to categorize the thinker and the thought into a category. Both/all Descartes’ separate discovered entities can be grouped under the heading “realm of mind”. Like pictures on a computer can be dragged into a folder the two concepts “thinker and thought” can be contained in the realm of mind. The realm of mind-category contains the thinker and the thought.
The next definition is that all there is in the realm of mind is realm of mind. Now “realm of mind” is defined as “the thinker and the thought and all else there is in this category”. To simplify I will abbreviate “realm of mind” into “ROM”. All there is in ROM is ROM; all there is in the category is the category. Hence Descartes’ “I think and I exist” is ROM observing ROM’s existence – the thinker observing thought’s existence or vice versa. Observation is an act performed by/in/as ROM and is ROM. ROM observing rom hence is ROM roming ROM: all there is in ROM is ROM.
The existential theory continues
E=mc
2
Energymass basics: first – in the mind of humans – there were energy and mass as separate phenomena. It takes one “joule” (unit) of energy to lift an apple one meter upward and this quantity can be converted into light, heat. Then Einstein unified energy and mass and the proofs for that they are indeed intertwined and the same are numerous, not the least potent being that we make mass into energy in our nuclear power plant technology. Hence many people talk about “massenergy” or “energymass”.
Spacetime basics: first – in the mind of humans – space (distance measured by rulers) and time (wristwatches) were thought of as separate phenomena. Edwin Hubble’s discovery of red-shift in the light coming from objects travelling away from us was important for unifying space with time. Red-shift is the quantum physical phenomenon of (wave-description:) the photon’s wavelength getting longer; (particle description:) the particle energy getting lower; (everyday description:) light gets redder when emitted from objects retreating from us. When light is red-shifted the time during which events seen as that light happen gets their duration extended. Though the phenomenon is too subtle to be seen in everyday life, it means that if you and your friend have synchronized wristwatches and he is running away from you as you look at his wristwatch, seconds occur slower for him than on your watch. He of course can think of you as becoming further away from him and hence we would (from his point of view) say that your time is slow. Time is relative (Einstein’s theory of relativity).
If that example takes more studying to fully believe there is a simpler way of proving that space and time are “spacetime”: mass occupies space hence space is necessary for there to be mass. Energy occurs through space during time. If we assume energy and mass are unified (into energymass) then spacetime is required for there to be energymass. Energymass involves spacetime. This justifies the word “spacetime”.
Now we have the words “energymass” and “spacetime”. They can be found unified in the equation E=mc2.
At this point I would like to digress to telling about the history of science: Einstein lived not so long ago and he was the one to unify energy and mass into energymass and space and time into spacetime. He died while searching for a “unified field theory” that would unify electromagnetism, gravity etc. into a single force.
To unify, if for no better reason than to continue the thousand year trend of unifying energy, mass, space and time, would be to unify energymass with spacetime.
The E=m-part of the equation is an abbreviation and literally means “energy equals mass”. The c
2
-part is a little bit different: in it space and time are a speed (more specifically the speed of light). A speed is of course a distance (space) during time – spacetime! E=mc2 can be thought of a sentence in which energymass is mentioned before spacetime (in mathematics equations can of course be modified without the equation becoming untrue, hence all there is to notice is that energymass is unified with spacetime: they are in the same equation).
We have been thinking about this before in this book: “reality is one”. Intertwining has the end result of there being one.
How does this add to the existential theory? By understanding the contrast between energymass and spacetime we get an “existence in non-existence”-theory instead of simply an existence/existential theory.
We are so focused on the sizescale of energymass that we tend to not acknowledge that each layer of the energymass sizescale has a corresponding layer in the spacetime sizescale; if we did acknowledge the importance of spacetime we would have a possible candidate for the other element (the first element being infinite justification between the layers of the sizescale) for the existential theory: existence can be allowed in nothing/non-existence.
A metaphor for this is energymass and spacetime being children frog-leaping over each other’s backs: whenever one is in front the other appears in front. This process occurs infinitely fast or without time; energymass and spacetime co-exist.
A thought experiment that gets close to the core of this idea explains how this reality started (the reason for the big bang): let’s assume there is no world; no energymass sizescale; no existence. Then there would be nothing; nothing is a synonym for spacetime (empty spacetime without objects). What must be true about this empty nothing? Can there be nonsense about it; can there be illogical truths in it; can one be three, a triangle have 24 angles, one size be another, one moment in time be 75 other completely unrelated ones…? Can E=mc
512
+0.4m-5 (instead of E=mc
2
)? Think about what it means for E=mc2 to be true in the above mentioned framework: energymass is “mentioned”. Where is it “mentioned”? In the tiniest spaces (the infinitely tiny) because E=mc
2
is true everywhere. Hence the big bang 13.7 billion years ago began as as dense as can be known. When is E=mc2 mentioned? As soon as there was complete emptiness in which the laws of nature (no-nonsense rules) apply. In this manner – by “mentioning” energymass – Nothing summons existence.
Extrapolating on this might seem quite futile because the point is: “energymass and spacetime are together as in E=mc
2
”.
Now both elements of the existential theory have been presented: an infinite sizescale explaining size and E=mc
2
explaining existence in non-existence. The sizescale is energymasspacetime; energymasspacetime comes as a sizescale. These two concepts are a full existential theory because there is no more explanation needed. Add the fact that we know at which sizes the roof and floor of knowledge are and science itself seems complete in a significant way.
Energymass and spacetime descriptions: one for each sizescale
Let’s take quantum physics as an example: what is the wave-description? For example color is defined by the wavelength of a photon; a wavelength is a distance measurable by a ruler. What does the amplitude (the height and depth of the peak and troth) of the wave mean? It reads: “where will most light be?” For example in if one light wave is a peak and the other is a troth in the same location in space then they cancel out and no light lands where they occupy. Similarly two peaks occupying the same space means twice as much light (double brightness) lands there compared to a single wave alone.
Both wave amplitude and wave-length are distances; notice how no energymass is mentioned anywhere in the above description.
To stay on the topic of wave-particles of quantum physics: a growing number of photons as particles in a certain location means added brightness (like with wave amplitude). To know the color of a photon you need to know its energy (and energy equals mass).
If we were to place the two descriptions in the two sizescales (the energymass sizescale and the spacetime sizescale), which description would fit in which sizescale? The wave-description concerns distances of space and the particle-description concerns energymass. On the sizescale layer of quantum physics the two different sizescales (energymass and spacetime) are evident. We have one description from/for each sizescale.
If we move up a notch from quantum physics in the sizescale: what about an atom? The spherical thing ancient Greeks called the building block of all things; the spheres which let us know of their existence by reflecting and emitting light; the things that when bundled together in numbers equal to the number of stars in the visible universe make one organ such as a liver. A liver seems solid because atoms are solid objects but it turns out that atoms are mostly empty space: such a small percentage of an atom’s space is occupied by mass that I won’t bother writing all the zeros. A metaphor gives a clearer picture: there is a fly in the middle of a football stadium; the fly represents the nucleus of the atom and the electron closest to the nucleus orbits around the stadium.
And if that space to mass ratio was not enough: the masses that make up an atom are the particle-waves that fit into both sizescales. The question is: is an atom to be placed in the energymass or the spacetime sizescale? The right answer is: both (because both energymass and spacetime are its elements; an atom’s nature is that of both energymass and spacetime).
The concept of gravity since Newton was mass pulling toward mass (Newton’s world view focused on the energymass sizescale). Einstein added his curvature of spacetime-description. Both Newtonian and Einsteinian gravity explain why an apple falls toward earth. The two sizescales (energymass and spacetime) make up one sizescale (energymasspacetime).
Hence we can extend the “which sizescale does this size fit into?”-question up the sizescale even to the roof of knowledge (the visible universe).  At every size you can describe using a spacetime and an energymass-description; it’s not either spacetime or energymass but both spacetime and energymass-descriptions for every phenomenon.
The existential theory continues
The theory itself has been fully presented as it only requires two concepts: an infinite sizescale and E=mc
2
. From having the existential theory further conclusions can be reached.
One of them is what the founding fathers of the United States of America wrote: all men are equal. Because of the intertwining of energymass and spacetime it makes no sense for any part of the unobservable partlessness to have different value assigned to different locations. We deduce from E=mc2 that all men are created equal. We are part of energymasspacetime.
What about determinism; that if there was knowledge of all the details of every subatomic particle and complete knowledge of the rules that govern them there’d be the ability to predict the future in perfect detail and for any length of time. The answer is in three parts: in the realm of mind there is the experience of free will. In quantum physics we know that we cannot know certain facts about any specific particle-wave to perfect detail (if we measure where it is we don’t know where it’s going and vice versa). If the pattern of justification continues all along the infinite sizescale then there is a deterministic reason for everything but we will not know most of the reasons (most of the sizescale). Hence reality/the sizescale is deterministic but the reasons – most of the clockwork – are hidden from human knowledge.
What about the history of science? To recap the most recent events: the past thousand years have shown a trend which is even more prominent in the past 200 years, and even more prominent in the last 100 years: the trend is that knowledge has expanded tremendously. here we will focus on two subtrends: the familiarization with new sizes and the addition of objects to those sizes.
There are infinitely many objects and hence infinitely much object knowledge; infinitely many objects in each layer of the sizescale (all you need to do is move in space). If you teach a biologist about every detail about every known animal, insect and plant he wouldn’t have even close to the capacity to remember even a tiny fraction of it though nothing will be nonsensical and a complete surprise to him: there won’t be surprises like “this mammal completely lacks anything with the function of DNA” or “this lizard doesn’t need energy to grow”; all details about all new animals fit into a biologist’s existing framework/model/world view.
The framework/model/world view is the familiarity with a layer of the sizescale. The infinite non-surprising amount of knowledge is objects of the size represented by the layer and found in the infinite space that the layer can move in.
The overlap occurs because object knowledge is necessary for there to be familiarization i.e. general concepts applying to a layer. A geologist must have some, perhaps fictional, planet to think about when learning how his layer of the sizescale works. After having familiarized with that layer there is the expectation that any planet (or object of that size) behaves in the same way as other such-sized objects. Another way of saying this is that you would not expect any planet, not even a 100% iron planet, to behave like a photon (smaller) or visible universe (larger).
Hence sadly for those wanting to “complete science” there are infinitely many objects and situations of every size. On the other hand we have the entire known sizescale and you can ask a cosmologist if he is familiar with the visible universe and he would say yes, you could ask an astronomer if he is familiar with solar system sized objects and he’d say yes, you could ask a geologist if he is familiar with continents and he would say yes, …, you could ask a quantum physicist if he is familiar with quantum physics and he would say yes. In this day and age it is possible to familiarize yourself with any layer between quantum physics (floor of knowledge) and the visible universe (roof of knowledge).
There are infinitely many sublayers between each pair of layers, for example a layer could be called “6.3337”. Asteroids behave somewhat like planets and like human sized objects: asteroids are between the human layer and the geology layer. There is a need to have courses on geology but not the same need to have the same length courses on asteroids because knowledge from geology can be applied to asteroids. Using knowledge from two nearby major layers on the sizescale one can assume the layers between them to hold some properties from the two known layers; using common sense one can deduce the nature of sizes between two familiar sizes. Hence a dozen modern university-level courses can familiarize you with the major layers and then you can tie it all together and be familiar with all the knowable layers.
What does this say about the future of science and hence technological innovation? If we like continuous advancements we ought to be disappointed: a finite knowable sizescale yields finite technology because technology is practical use of knowledge of a layer.
For example, in computing we are approaching sizes where we need to manipulate building blocks smaller than atoms in order to improve computer speeds. Even if we build a quantum computer which manipulates quantum physical particle-waves, in order to achieve even higher speeds we’d need to break though the floor of knowledge. Though there might be a long way to go before the final invention from a modern perspective in the million year perspective science ended now.
If the current limits of knowledge are the ultimate limits of knowledge then this is a representation of the history of science and a prediction of the future:
Notice how long time we spent on the crust of the planet only knowing a very limited range of size, and that the future – assuming we now know the limits of knowledge – will have the currently known sizescale in the minds of humans for forever.
What about religion? Energymass intertwined with spacetime (or as I like to say: “one in zero”) as an infinite sizescale gives an atheistic alternative to religious creation-myths. Also if the unthinkable thought applies to a God which is an observer, then can God see all of His creation? Either there is separation or there is separation’s opposite and therefore no separation/observation.
Perhaps obscure texts, old and new, can be interpreted in the light of an infinite sizescale and E=mc2 thus making those who previously saw the obscure text as incoherent ramble instead see them as a metaphor for what is presented in this book; scientific facts can become meditative insight such as in the following example: thus far we know that the human layer is approximately in the middle of the sizescale – you wouldn’t expect to find a human level of consciousness in a brain the size of a planet or the size of a cell. In an infinite sizescale it is our size – the size of our brain – that is the conscious layer of the sizescale. This layer is infinite 3-dimensional space i.e. there is infinite space with the human size everywhere in it. You could say that the layer (size) is the foundation for the mind; the layer is consciousness and the brain/mind is where its inherent consciousness is manifested.
Dark matter and Dark energy
The two problems of dark matter and dark energy arise from not understanding the sizescale.  The solution is not so complex that it has not been solved because it requires more years of technological or mathematical work, but instead it’s so simple that it is obvious from knowing the nature of the known sizescale.
Recognize how the objects in the sizescale relate to each other: how atom-sized objects are different from molecules; how the nature of a cell is different from that of an organ; how a solar system does not behave like a galaxy etc. This is the very reason why there are fields of science and different specialties; there is not just one layer of the sizescale that has to be learned.
There will be attempts at more complex solutions than simply pointing at the sizescale saying: “Look! The atom is different from the human”, but these solutions will fail because the simple solution is the right one. The simple solution forces us to overcome human arrogance which has us wanting more than we can get.
In the case of dark matter the problem is confusing one layer with another or expecting two very separate layers to be the same. One size is not another. Dark matter is all about a galaxy not working like a solar system.
Dark matter is the undetected mass (by most thought to be an undiscovered particle-wave) that makes up the majority of the mass in a galaxy. If this mass was uniformly distributed and as detectable as protons, neutrons and electrons it would dominate over the everyday mass. Dark matter is the ghost elephant in the room.
Why does mainstream science propose something so radical? It is radical because it makes most of all energymass a complete mystery; if we’d solve the dark matter problem we’d know 100% instead of just a few percent of all mass. The dark matter hypothesis originates from noticing the true fact that galaxies don’t behave like solar systems do: our equations regarding gravity can’t be applied to a galaxy.
The way a galaxy differs from a solar system in terms of gravity is that you’d expect objects further away from the center of the system (galaxy or solar system) to travel significantly slower than objects nearer to the center of the system. Gravity is stronger depending on distance; gravity is weaker the further away the two objects are from one another.
This is how it works in solar systems. How do you expect this scenario to play out in a galaxy-sized system? I’d have no preconceived notions because we’re talking about a different size i.e. different layer from the sizescale and I recognize that the sizes can be very different (particle-waves are different compared to humans).
When we observe a galaxy we see that gravity doesn’t get weaker with distance like in a solar system; gravity is too strong at stars far away from the center of the galaxy; the stars furthest from the galaxy’s center move too fast to be accounted for by our solar system based knowledge of gravity. A galaxy does not behave like a solar system.
Some solve this mystery by clinging to our solar system-based model of gravity and say it applies at every size and to therefore add invisible undetected mass to the galaxy. Extra mass would add the gravity needed to account for the speed of every star in the galaxy. It’s possible to calculate how much extra mass would be needed and the answer is: more than the galaxy’s own mass; dark matter is the majority of all mass in a galaxy.
The problem obviously arises from being a fundamentalist about our solar system based equations regarding gravity. If we tweak these equations so that they differ throughout the known sizescale then it means that we’ve accepted that gravity changes; the attraction between masses is different in different layers. Masses look different on different layers hence it’s natural for the forces to be different too.
We either add more than the mass of a galaxy to a galaxy to account for the observed gravitational effects or we recognize that solar system derived equations regarding gravity apply to solar systems and galaxy derived equations regarding gravity apply to galaxies. We either keep wondering about the undetected majority of mass or we recognize the layers of the sizescale being different compared to one another.
Dark matter was about galaxies, dark energy is a similar problem of current science: in the dark energy problem we wonder why the very largest sizes of energymasspacetime i.e. very top layers of the sizescale show behavior which does not appear lower in the sizescale.
Dark energy is the phenomenon of the big bang (which is still occurring today) speeding up; galaxy clusters accelerate in their retreat from one another if they are sufficiently far apart; cosmic expansion is accelerating. The universe not only keeps adding cubic meters to its size but this expansion process is getting faster and faster as time goes. For hundreds of years it has been known that acceleration requires energy; a car speeding up burns gasoline. Hence the word “energy” in “dark energy”. What causes the acceleration noticed in these very large sizes? Either an energy (not gasoline) distributed everywhere which needless to say is unlike any known type of energy or it’s a phenomenon arising from the nature of the sizescale.
If the extreme sizes of the sizescale allow the repulsion between extremely large masses and this phenomenon is not noticed at say human sized objects then, as the sizescale grows upward (the visible universe grows), the newly created layers ought to be different than the layers beneath them. Another way of putting it is that as layers are added to the top of the sizescale (as the visible universe grows) you can expect a large (but not largest) segment of space in which accelerating cosmic expansion is noticed today to someday be what today is the very top layer, and by then there’ll be new very top layers: hence what today is seen as the large segment in which accelerating cosmic expansion occurs will be even larger i.e. even higher in the sizescale in the future and hence you’d expect it to behave differently than it does today: perhaps it’s acceleration increases.
The maximum size i.e. visible universe is today a certain number of cubic meters, in a hundred billion years it will be a very different size. Quantum physics don’t change in this way and hence you can imagine the sizescale growing upwards; the center of the sizescale moves upwards in the sizescale as time goes on. It is incomprehensible that the size of the visible universe today ought to behave like the size of the visible universe in a hundred billion years (when it is much larger i.e. somewhere very different in the sizescale).
The dark energy problem can either be solved by adding a majority of energymass to the universe in the form of dark energy, calculable by basically asking how much gasoline you’d need to accelerate all the mass in the visible universe as much as it accelerates. Or by recognizing the difference between the different sizes and thus expecting something new at the sizes where the dark energy phenomenon is observed.
The contrast between the state of the art billion dollar equipment designed to detect dark matter and dark energy and the obvious nature of the sizescale is quite spectacular. The high tech attempts at solving these mysteries have failed so far. The sizescale approach to these problems eliminates them.
Let us begin with the existential theory presented in this book: the sizescale is infinite. It’s a known fact that humanity has not been able to predict what comes next in the sizescale; when we recognized that there were different sizes we didn’t immediately deduce that we are made of organs, organs of cells, cells of proteins, proteins of atoms and atoms of quantum particle-waves. We thought our solar system was all there was as existence and then thought our billion star system galaxy was all there was. It’s been very hard to predict yet unknown layers of the sizescale. The history of science can in fact be summed up as the inability to easily deduce what objects are part of and made up of. If new layers are so hard for humanity to familiarize their civilizations with then the layers must differ from one another; why then would the galaxy to visible universe sized layers not exhibit some unpredicted behavior. If the sizescale had a predictable pattern, by this I mean that you could give the description of this pattern to the most uneducated forest tribe and they’d soon know all that science knows today, then we’d be able to predict past the limits of knowledge. This emergent (complex systems arising out of a multiplicity of relatively simple interactions) nature in the layers of the sizescale would have us expect something like dark energy and dark matter phenomena. The layers of the sizescale differ: hence the dark matter and dark energy problems. My proposal is to replace the dark energy and dark matter concepts with: “layers differ in the sizescale”.
My approach when solving the dark matter and dark energy problems was not to attempt to solve them using the sizescale-concept. Instead I simply realized that if I were presented with the evidence for and reasons why we need dark energy and dark matter I’d put these reasons and evidence into my sizescale-model and they’d fit in flawlessly; I would not be surprised if a galaxy worked differently compared to a solar system.
The sizescale movie
Let us say you are sitting on a train looking out from your body, you see your body and your surroundings. You might focus on some more or less mundane object of a certain size. Then you realize it is part of something much larger and is made up of something much smaller; the object of your focus is approximately in the middle of the known sizescale.
There are movies which zoom in and out flowing in the known sizescale. What no movie yet does is detach the observer from the sizescale-concept itself and analyze that thought.
From there you can choose a layer, remove the rest of the sizescale-concept (the other layers) and now you have an arbitrary shape defined as infinite 3-dimensional space showing a certain size. What objects are of this size? How do they behave during time? What is their history and predicted future?
Back to the sizescale-concept: in the sizescale-concept it is possible to simplify it to just ten layers shaped like say cubes. Time is present in all of them: as an atom vibrates the galaxy spins.
You might rotate that sizescale-concept so the point of view from which you see each object changes as much for every layer. Rotating the sizescale-concept applies the same rotation to every layer.
This movie idea allows for a certain degree of creativity in that you can choose which size, which object and which time to show but also whether to show the objects that make up nature or the concept with its detached observer, space between observer and sizescale-concept and the different layers representing different sizes seen simultaneously.
Why should such a movie be successful? One aspect is that people tend to experience very similar emotions regarding matters of science and philosophy: you can make the viewer feel small by zooming out until the largest known, feel complicated by dedicating time to analyzing different substructures within and among cells within a fraction of a body part, feel large compared to the limit of knowledge at particle-waves. By sequencing these feelings and then acknowledging how the majority feel in response to the shown scenes you can sell a very shared experience.
Another punch line to be said in the movie is that while comedy, drama, horror, action etc. movies must be very different in their plots on different planets where the civilization has invented movies, the sizescale movies are more universal because they focus on universal phenomena. Rules such as the spinning of galaxies, the vibration of atoms, the division of cells using DNA etc. are identical on all life bearing planets. There is no life bearing galaxy that does not spin – a non-spinning galaxy would collapse into a black hole. Atoms vibrating is heat and there is no life where there is no heat. There is no building complex organisms without mutation and the survival of the fittest and some blueprint such as DNA. This vast collection of phenomena from the many layers of the sizescale can be the basis of a movie and is identical throughout the infinite universe with its infinite number of life bearing planets. If our culture should resemble the culture of other planets we should show sizescale movies. It is a way for us to get closer to our universal brotherhood of all intelligent civilizations and our cosmic destiny because in the billions of years to come this kind of movie will be shown, if for nothing else then in schools.
This brings me to my next point: is it easy to learn under a bureaucracy of deadlines, tests, homework, schedules and teachers none of which you’ve chosen yourself? Perhaps it’d be easier to learn from sizescale movies, especially if there are many of them with different creative approaches and different teachers.
Sizescale movies consider every layer as equally difficult to learn; there is no “difficult layer” because they’re all part of the same sizescale; you can familiarize yourself with every layer of the known sizescale.
If you want an interactive digital sizescale-concept then humanity could make an animation of every known general behavior of every known energymass and put the animations in a database connected to the internet. This would allow clients to connect to the global sizescale-concept project to view humanity’s model of the known sizescale. You could click on a layer and choose a location/object, a time and a speed and thus learn how objects of interest work.
In a movie you could have a sizescale-concept from which you choose two layers: one showing the world map and one showing humans. Then, to show the history of science, you would move to different locations in the map layer to find different people whom did certain things to realize things about nature. As you change location and move forward in time you’ll have the history of science. My expectation is of course not a one-to-one representation time-wise of every lifetime who has contributed to science, rather a quick: “this person lived here, he did this which was of scientific importance and then this other person picked up the previous ideas and invented this…” A quick couple minute summary of every addition to science. The same a-lot-of-information-fast way of making movies I would apply to the more object oriented sizescale movies: a movie about geology need not spend hours and hours on the looks of different continents on earth – size, orientation and location – in million year increments during the 4500 million year history. The important point to take from continental drift is the fact that continents move, the reason why, how they move and how much they move during a certain period of time. Familiarizing yourself with the facts that (and why, how and how fast) continents move is the kind of knowledge that applies to all planets i.e. the entire layer, but object specific knowledge focuses on a certain moment in time on a certain planet. This is the difference between familiarization i.e. knowledge of a whole layer, and object specific knowledge about a particular object like earth.
This kind of education can either add to or replace modern education. Many people reach the highest levels of academia without being familiar with certain major layers of the sizescale; there are biology professors unaware of the nature of wave-particles and experts on quantum physics unaware of how galaxies collide. The previous century was all about specialization, hopefully the next century is all about familiarity with every layer of the known sizescale and knowledge of the concepts “entire sizescale” and “knowable sizescale”.
It seems universal to, like showing advertisements on large public televisions, show sizescale movies which are thought-provoking, dazzling and educational about common human medical problems. No parental advisory needed because when zooming in even the most repugnant phenomena become neutral and scientific. Unlike being bombarded with advertising bombardment by medical teachings would certainly improve humanity’s health.
With the movies, digital animated sizescale-concepts and digital oracles (which answer questions by showing the layers and times necessary to answer the client’s questions) spread on the global communications networks (internet, radio, TV, phones) there might be an event in history called an educational revolution. I believe an event as necessary as the invention of fire in the history of intelligent organisms is the educational revolution because of the easy merger of communications systems with knowledge: the educational revolution is a universal historical period in which the knowable sizescale and related concepts are taught globally. I believe we are on the threshold of this event; the period of specialization is followed by the period of unification of knowledge – the merger of all fields of science into a single sizescale.
Questions and answers
Life beyond the limits of knowledge
Could there be life elsewhere in the sizescale – life smaller than the floor of knowledge or larger than the roof of knowledge? Could there be life much larger/smaller than us in parts of the sizescale that are unknown to us? Call the layer showing a cell “layer 3” and the layer showing a galaxy “layer 8” and keep the change in size between each two layers constant – could there be life between say layers 34530 to 34540?
My only clue is Pi, as if the circle’s diameter to circumference ratio tells us anything about repeatable patterns in the sizescale.
If “4444444444444444444444” is repeated infinitely many times in the decimals of pi then why would not the known sizescale be repeated infinitely many times in the entire sizescale?
There could be a self-assembling shape i.e. reproduction in the unknowable sizescale which is all that’s needed for evolution.
The forces of the sizescale
What are the forces in the sizescale?
There are two theories regarding the forces:
either the entire sizescale only assumes the known forces as rules in creating the next object of the sizescale, or
forces come and go throughout the infinite sizescale.
Forces explain how one layer of the sizescale relates to another; forces are the rules the objects of different sizes use to achieve the next size.
The big bang’s end and beginning
How might the big bang end and begin again? How will the universe look in hundreds or thousands or who knows how many billions of years?
Galaxy clusters are accelerating in their retreat from one another whilst the mass of a galaxy whirls toward the galaxy’s central black hole. If you were the last intelligent organism in the entire visible universe you’d see your closest galaxy moving away at a speed which will soon be the speed of light, and soon you and all other mass of your galaxy will be as a black hole.
What’s in the middle of a black hole? The answer is: “one”. A black hole is a spherical mass which has a boundary (the surface of the sphere) and that which goes within this surface never goes back outside. Additionally, if you throw a computer and a TV into a black hole they become unified, indistinguishable from one another; they become one. So in the infinite gravity in the center of the black hole there is a one.
Imagine if you will a visible universe in which the nearest mass has approached the speed of light and all other mass is these invisible infinite-gravity black hole ones. Does this picture not seem eerily similar to a previous thought experiment in which you were asked to imagine nothing in which E=mc2 is true? Could such an entire known-sizescale spanning range of sizes be considered the kind of emptiness in which E=mc2 summons existence in the smallest spaces? If that is the case, our existence begins as as dense as can be known (which we know it did begin as) and ends as the opposite: complete emptiness in which E=mc2.
The time between end (emptiness in which E=mc2) and beginning (“quark-gluon plasma” i.e. maximum density) is interesting. In my mind the leap between the two is straight-forward but if you were observing this time there’d be a huge difference from one moment (end) to the next (beginning).
Because of the necessarily unobservable time between end and Big Bang seeming very unintuitive and unlike events in everyday life I find myself struggling to believe this idea but this is the only theory I have which acknowledges the black holes that mass gravitates toward, the accelerating cosmic expansion and the E=mc2 and sizescale concepts.
The first three evolutionary principles are like laws of nature applying to reproducing organisms. As soon as there was reproduction, three laws of nature became relevant: those who survive survive; number of offspring matters; and, there is mutation in each generation. A single cell reproducing would´ve been subject to these three laws. Then, when a mutation arose that allowed for the injection done by one organism into another organism so that the victim start producing the perpetrator´s offspring instead of his own, “power” became relevant as yet another evolutionary principle.
To counteract such power, immune systems evolved. Thus we have multicellular organisms which designate some of their own cells to counteract parasitism from hostile bacteria and viruses. Multicellularity opened the door for a multitude of additional evolutionarily benefitial mutations such as fins, eyes, etc; fish are simple creatures, all of their traits easily arising and growing with no rare or major mutations needed.
Already in a fish, a cortex-like structure (flexible bundles of cells that wire themselves differently depending on what the particular organism vielding this learning structure requires) evolved to adapt the behavior to the anatomy; to counteract developmental mishaps or injuries, that for example in a fish might leave one fin shorter than the other – if the brain doesn´t adapt to this and doesn´t know of the difference between the two fins, the organism will swim in circles when trying to swim straight. If it has a hard-wired behavior for swimming straight, and if this circuit doesn´t utilize the ability to learn, even the smallest injury will defect the organism when trying to swim in a straight line. If you can´t tell what you´re steering (can´t learn, but are hard-wired to maneuver a certain anatomy that has to develop perfectly for you to be able to steer it) you will not be as successful as those who can learn even the tiniest amount; such as swimming in straight lines even if you had a minor injury to one fin.
Getting onto land of these sexually reproducing creatures, males being able to produce millions of sperm every day (and possibly impregnating many females) while females produce a scarce number of egg-cells and can only produce so many offspring while the male can produce far more, competition among males arose because competing males have more sexual opportunities/possibilities.
Thus the bigger the male, he´ll be able to scare away less fearsome males. The more deadly the claws, jaws, tails, horns that the male has, the more likely he is to pass his genome on to a multitude of children, on the expense of more gentle males. Thus evolution favors the most deadly gene for males.
Women´s sexual strategy also incorporates the scale from gentle to fierce that males find themselves in. The more capable of reproducing the male is, if a woman mates with such a male, her male children are likely to bear his traits and be able to find many partners (and make grandchildren, which is what the woman´s genome wants).
Dinosaurs thus have pre-requisites: multicellular organisms (with immune systems), which arose from power (parasitism) being beneficial, which arose from the three first evolutionary principles, which arose from there being reproduction. Dinosaurs thus are a sub-principle of multicellularity, which is a sub-principle of power by injection of DNA, which is a sub-principle of the first three principles.
With a Malthusian crisis, meaning competition for resources makes survival difficult, groups arise. Previously individualistic organisms mutate as to take favors from and give favors to fellow organisms, so as to out-compete individualists. Groups out-compete individuals in fights.
By this time, language should arise so as to allow the group-living organisms to send and receive messages regarding food and threats, and the details such as which direction to go while hunting for food.
In a group of organisms that cooperate, hierarchies arise because being able to stay within the group but still having more women than average was beneficial. Again the principle of power comes into play, mutating the hard-wired part of the organisms brain so that it starts behaving in a way that makes it want to be on top of the hierarchy rather than anywhere else in it.
The cortex has grown to handle language, to stay within the group, and now it will spend its idle time using the memory-prediction nature of the cortex to try to predict scenarios (based on memory) that will lead to more hierarchical power for the planning organism. If an imagined future sequence of behaviors – telling this group-member this thing, that group member that thing, using this tool for that – leads to more power, this plan (sequence of contexts) is marked as important using dopamine and thus remembered. Then steps are undertaken to act out the plan. Once this kind of organism became “king” (the top of the hierarchy) – where one gets by being able to remember and predict behaviors that lead to the top – it lead to more women as sexual partners, thus his anatomy was passed in his genome to disproportionately many children, who then had the same anatomy in the hard-wired brain as to, when the cortex is idle, start planning and if one plan seems to lead to more power, the plan is undertaken. The cortex is hijacked by the old brain to plan (predict based on memory), and the old-brain will eavesdrop on the thoughts going on in the cortex until two concepts fire together: “self” and “more power”; then the old-brain will intervene by marking whatever thoughts just happened as important.
This was a benefitial mutation because those having it survived and those who didn´t have it eventually died out, became extinct because they didn´t care to place themselves anywhere in a hierarchy because they didn´t think in terms of hierarchies. Even if their cortex created a memory-based prediction that lead to more power, some organisms at some point in time must not have cared more about such thoughts than any other thought; the old-brain requires a certain anatomy (from certain genes) to be able to react to thoughts leading to power.
The cortex growing was to a large degree a consequence  of those able to plan – by having larger cortexes – having more children because they, in a Machiavellian manner, climbed to the top. The largest cortexed creatures were the most high in the hierarchy. Thus children in the next generation had larger cortexes than children had had in previous generations. The largest cortex of these, able to plan more scenarios more quickly, able to record more memories and access more of all memories simultaneously, were always more likely to climb to the top – generation after generation. During millions of years, the general rule was that if you wanted to find the most intelligent organism alive, you´d look to the king rather than the bullied. This explains the rapid growth-related mutations of the cortex during the past millions of years.
By this time, the concept “I” was in the old brain already because the old brain, when requesting the cortex to plan, wants to gear the cortex into planning things that regard the self. The cortex without the old brain would be just as likely to think about the causes and effects of any random totally not evolutionarily beneficial sequences of events. By mutating an old brain that is only interested in thoughts that relate to the self, keeps the cortex thinking for the organism itself. We thus are likely to, if we look for a self in any thought we may have, find a self there almost all of the time. Thoughts not at all relevant to (or associated to) ourselves we should find uninteresting.
The word “I” came into use when we´d had benefits from being able to speak; to learn from each others´ experiences, to plan hunts together, or to gain more power for ourselves by creating sub-groups within the group that can team up against the rest of the members of the larger group (thus leading to sexual benefits for those doing this). To recruit members of the group to our side, to help us with our endeavors, required a thorough capability of handling language.
Life for these cavemen then consisted of experiences such as the old brain asking the cortex to plan how to get food (hunger), thirst, temperature, etc. Other than these homeostasis-related inputs to the cortex coming from the old brain monitoring the blood (nutrient levels, oxygen levels, etc), external inputs came via the senses: a male seeing a symmetrical face, fat boobs, fat ass (“fat” as in caveman standards where food was scarce) and a particular hip-to-waist ratio would have his old brain hijack the cortex for plans about sex. When the cortex was idle, plans would be made for gaining more power and preserving the power one already has, same gain-and-preservation goals regarding ones resources (wealth), and thinking about ones family (if a friend or family member has a problem, it should be thought about, the old brain waiting to mark thoughts relating to a solution to the family members´ problem as important). Power, resources and family is what idle cortexes think about because it was an evolutionary benefit not to have a caveman not use his cortex, but using an otherwise idle cortex (i.e. which is not hungry or anything else) to plan how to get power, resources and help ones family.
Life in those days was simple: hunger, thirst and other homeostatic hijackings of the cortex; looking at women, behaving a certain way if a friend was nearby, etc. as responses to external input; planning for power, resources and helping family if otherwise idle. Cortexes must have learned to say words to refers to each of these few dozen things the cortex always thinks about. A shared vocabulary containing words referring to the things humans thought about, and life continuing like this for an entire lifetime, knowing it has continued so for many lifetimes, must have led to someone innovating by doing something new; something other than these few dozen universal thoughts. Maybe someone out of his own will or out of a mean joke by his superiors began to think about each word, focusing on word after word to uncover what it means. Is “animal” a well-defined word, when in the real world it can be used about antelopes, buffalos, birds and worms – and even humans? They must have had concepts for each of these animals, but they can all be called animals as to distinguish them from plants or dirt – and when these animals are painted on cave walls people can be asked: “in one word, what is painted in the cave?” so as to force the answer to contain all different animals in a single word. This was an analysis of the word “animal”, but what about the word “I”. When the cortex is requested to focus on the word I, it soon finds itself finding out that whatever is perceived by (or in front of) the I cannot be the I because then there´d be two I´s (we evolved to define I as one self). When the word “I” is focused on, it being a concept, one can ask who perceives it; then if the perceiver can be perceived. If there are two I´s – one is a thought or word one was asked to think about, and the other is unseen – then the unseen I must be the true one rather than the I separate from (perceived as being located a distance away from the true self) the true self.
This is a purely cortical task, which makes the thought-based I injected into the cortex from the old brain to pursue evolutionary goals less important. The circuit created into the flexible cortex by focusing on the concept of “I” and finding that oneself cannot be in front of (or any distance away from, separate from) oneself, is a far more interesting endeavor to pursue than the cortex-idle tasks (power, resources, family). It is likely to be pursued because finding ones true self i.e. having a circuit (which is the same on all planets in any animal thinking about the word “I”) is thought related to oneself and it diminishes the importance of the evolved default self which is basically located in the old brain.
Thus someone focusing on the word I, maybe looking like a crazy guy because by finding what I´ve just described he runs and jumps around screaming “I, I, me, me! focus on ‘myself’!”. At first he might seem crazy, but once say a child does as he is told (analyzes the word “I”), he will also develop the same purely cortical I-circuit with its self-definition different from what others mean when they talk about the self (related to power, resources and relationships). In the people who´ve focused on the word “I” there will be two competing circuits for the claim to selfhood: one claim to selfhood will be in the thoughts related to survival and reproduction. One claim to selfhood will lie in the circuit that analyzes and sees and perceives even the subtlest things – this is a purely cortical and thus purely cultural anatomical structure (passed linguistically and not genetically from generation to generation).
People find interesting thoughts such as “if ‘reality’ is all there is; can it be seen? Because if so, isn´t the see-er separate from reality by seeing all of it?” and “can the self be seen? Because if you do a directional self-inquiry you´ll find it is in no direction away from you.” These thoughts get passed in the oral tradition, and they make life easier because the urge to think about preserving power might include thoughts about a very possible situation where one loses power (or if you´re a woman whom don´t compete for power because it didn´t lead them to sexual monopoly because they don´t gain benefits from having such sexual access to all men, because they are the selector of men while men are the competitors for women). Thoughts can scare us; the old brain sends negative emotions to the cortex if the cortex conjures up a plan/future scenario where one loses power, resources, health, etc.; and by defining the self as not the self involved in such scary evolution-related thoughts, the thoughts become less scary because they don´t concern the true self. The only self involved in them was the evolutionarily created old-brain injected-into-the-cortex “self” which keeps people thinking about their own evolutionarily beneficial plans.
This thought (which might have been phrased, “look at the self; who watches this?” in caveman days) would´ve been passed on as all true conclusions were (it´s an evolutionary benefit to teach especially ones children all of ones true knowledge), along with some superstitions and random crap that happened to get marked as important by the cognitive filters and biases of our knowledge-gathering abilities.
Generations passing, false conclusions would likely die out eventually, while the true conclusions (like the cortical circuit generated by examining “self” and “reality”) would never be removed from the culture. Freud argued this in response to the question of why the ancient myths are here; why were they remembered generation after generation instead of some other stories? Freud´s response was that they tell us something about universal truths such as human nature.
Jesus can be explained by him being a man whom wired his cortex by focusing on the words “self” and “reality” – his teaching after all put a lot of emphasis on soul and reality.
We thus live in an age where many true conclusions are being said, having been passed on, on and on, through the generations, along with some false conclusions that haven´t been disproven yet. Also, what occupies our cortexes is the occasional (or for those who haven´t focused on self, reality nor science) request for power, resources and family to be well. And of course the homeostatic urges like hunger, thirst, etc. That seems to be a pretty accurate description of humans today.
The event where I left off talking about evolutionary principles was somewhere around “caveman´s brains started growing because previous principles were that we lived in groups, because groups out-competed individualists, which was a principle gained from individuals competing, which was a principle arising from there being multicellularity (and sexual reproduction to modify the immune system to keep it up to date with the latest parasites), which were principles based on that there was power (parasitism), which arose from the original first evolutionary principles of survival and death, reproduction matters and mutation happens, which arose in the sizescale at a particular size where reproduction happens.
We´ve thus reasoned our way from reproduction leading to principles and subprinciples and subprinciples of subprinciples, all the way to the cortex growing in group-dwelling, sexually reproducing, language-capable multicellular organisms. We´ve also looked at the continuous transition from evolution-based to culture based, where the concept I in the old brain evolved to keep the cortex planning for the evolutionary needs of the organism. Then that the concept I was used in a social context i.e. linguistically. That is the transition between pre-culture and culture. Someone focusing on the self, wiring his cortex to be able to focus on the self (thus defining it in a different way than would´ve been available in lesser creatures), was the beginning of religion (because one becomes “less worldly”). The founding figures of religions thus are a principle based on the principle of language-based multicellular organisms focusing on words, in particular the word “I”.
The founding of America and the revolutionary ideas of democracy also show a principle: that the cortex is able to come into conflict with the seemingly eternal evolutionary patterns of “more power for oneself” by favoring an equal distribution of power by having the rule of law, where every man can ask “whom is above me in the hierarchy?” (a question cavemen asked) and when the answer is “the law, and only the law” then the old brain interprets this cortical thought as that “no-one (no person) is above me, thus I must be at the very top – exactly where I want to be”). Thus in America, everyone can feel like a king – a hard-wired old-brain feeling that used to only be available for the actual king during caveman days.
Every man wants to be king because we´re the descendants of kings because they got the most children, every generation during millions of years (the old brain might have an image of a triangle, the goal being that oneself is the top of the triangle and everyone else are the rest of the triangle). America´s contribution thus is that every man can feel like a king because the question (which the old brain recognizes) “who is on top of me in the hierarchy; who has absolute and arbitrary power over my will?”, in democracies, yields the answer: “the law, which we all vote for and have created”. Democracy makes it possible to satisfy the urge for power to some extent, even though it was an evolutionary benefit for the king to take away as much power as possible from everyone else. We didn´t evolve an anatomical circuit that puts a ceiling and limit to our urge for power; what would be the evolutionary benefit of that? We keep what we have and always try to get more, if we listen only to urges of our old brain.
Maximum happiness for most amounts of people makes us want to have everyone feel like a king, by instituting democracy and the rule of law. Then not only one person can feel like the king, but everyone can. Another positive result of the American political invention is that, a king always wanting more power would – if it didn´t interfere with his security – want every man possible to live on the verge of starvation, having no power to use to diminish the king´s power. Also, part of the male sexual strategy has evolved to be to perform conspicuous spending: to show women that resources are plentiful for offspring whom the king thinks are his. If a king can, he will want maximum possible sexual monopoly – assigning as few women as possible to other men (those who help him). Thus the genome stands before a choice: fulfill its emotions maximally and all men are killed or kept weak, all women are king´s property and resources are squandered; the other option is to neglect some requested hijackings of the cortex and instead use the cortex to do the moral (maximum happiness for most amount of people) but not as emotionally positive things. Luckily the emotion fades leaving us as happy that we did something good for the world as we would´ve been had we instead done conspicuous spending.
Meditation is cortex watching or taking input from itself. Cortical connections to other cortical regions involved in serving (being hijacked by) old brain requests.
To divide the largest functional size: the brain, into 2 parts: the cortex and the old brain, the flexible and the hard-wired is the next diagram. it illustrates information flow i.e. neuronal activation along time (x-axis), it going from cortex to old brain and back, repeatedly. A common scenario is that many pieces of information are abstracted in the cortex and three abstractions correspond to evolutionary old-brain concepts (neuronal clusters) thus activating the old brain.
Proof-checking. serotonin and dopamine interact with one another in two brainhalves: one visual and one linguistic). serotonin is a fish-net colonizing neurotransmitter spreading out like fungal growth. It activates randomly, thus causing activation of associated concepts, i.e. activation can occur at level of concept or context. If serotonin is doing its job in the left linguistic brainhalf then information can only reach the visual right brainhalf through corpus collosum. Activation of concepts in a temporal sequence thus causes visual imagination of the same concepts in the same temporal sequence.  Those things that can be imagined are highlighted, marked as important, with dopamine in the visual brainhalf. Dopaminergic information travels across corpus collosum and highlights the same concepts as sensical in the left brainhalf. next time serotonin randomly explores in the linguistic brainhalf, maybe it activates (by cells being associated and giant clusters previously confirmed by dopamine firing together) first a previously confirmed large sequence of concepts and then an additional random concept which must be proof-checked in the right brainhalf, marked by dopamine in the right brainhalf, and finally marked by dopamine in the left brainhalf to be added to the already remembered cluster of concepts.
Dividing the brain into cortex-cortex, cortex-oldbrain, left and right brainhalves shows why these large-scale anatomical traits evolved: each division shows the function of the anatomical division.
The goal of the mind is to gain survival and reproductive advantage; thus power is a goal. The entire model strives toward these goals. The emotions coming into the perfect logical structure the cortex from the old brain, hijacking the cortex to reach said goals, are to be understood.
Question: “how does the cortex – a perfect truth-generator – get hijacked into trying to reach evolutionary goals; even endless goals such as more power?”
Anatomically sensory data passes through or reaches the cortex before it reaches the old brain (except in the case of reflex-like stimulus-response events). It is the cortex´s evolutionary task – beneficial to survival & reproduction – to transmit this information to the old brain by being hijacked to answer old-brain-questions such as “does this give me [more wealth]?”. The old brain not only actively queries the cortex to search for fulfillment of emotions in evolutionary tasks, but also listens to certain concepts in the cortex to see when they activate. This is ingeniously accomplished by “wire together fire together”, meaning that sensory data either culturally learnt from parents or other humans or by the old brain seeing the same vision that has been seen for millions of years, fires an old brain concept/context simultaneously as the cortex abstracts the raw data input into a concept/context. Thus the idea of “food” exists in the cortex and in the old brain, and these two concepts are anatomically wired together because of “fire together wire together”. In summary it can be said that there is a mutual parasitism as the relationship between cortex and old brain: the old brain needs the cortex to survive (to proof-check imagined behavioral strategies, to interpret an ever more subtle social world, etc) and the cortex needs the old brain to survive/exist. This begs the question: who is the master – the old brain emotionally pushes and pulls the cortex to perform especially tasks related to homeostasis (which is why torture works, and why it produces desperate solutions from the tortured like lying). The cortex not only (once it has homeostasis) rests, but can also work (to gain power): giving rise to art, literature, science, music and the like.
The information processed through previously described functions is more or less abstract.
The brain learns by having genetic goals
A child´s cortex gets sensory input and after having gotten sensory input during every waking hour for months or years, the child can be seen behaving in a way that demonstrates that it has understood certain streams of spatial and temporal sensory neuron activation sequences as objects; another way of saying this is that we see that the child has learnt to understand and relates to some aspects of the world as we adults do.
How is the child´s cortex calibrated; how does the brain learn as what to interpret temporal-spatial neuronal input so accurately? It cannot be genetically hard-wired every step of the way because if a stray free-radical or other damaging molecule changes any point in the entire neuronal path from the visual cell in the eye to the end point – and these changes would be in all of us – there´d be an anomaly (such as moving one pixel to another location) in what we see; and it has to involve the pruning (removing) of many synapses because this is what we see anatomically in babies.
The way I would engineer this, knowing that certain environmental objects have been the same since the beginning of life, would be to use the moon, trees, grass, rocks, water, other humans and other things that have looked the same forever as hard-wired genetic goals which the cortex strives to see. Since the moon certainly appears when darkness reigns and humans gather around the campfire, a baby would be triggered by the campfire and darkness to look for something upwards which only becomes accurate when the muscles in the eye have a very particular strain on them. By the baby keeping gazing at the not-so-in-focus moon, his eye muscles move until the moon is as in focus as it will be that night. This configuration of the eye-muscles is remembered as useful for looking at the most distant objects. Now, based on this configuration, and using other objects represented as goals in our hard-wired old brain, a child´s “fire-together wire together”-feature in the cortex has a certain temporal-spatial pattern in the cortex fire at the same time as a genetic pattern fires. For example, the brain figures that if the child is outdoors and the wind blows and its dark and humans are around a campfire and there´s something bright in the sky, the “moon”-sequence in the old brain fires – now the child knows the goal. As long as the moon is in front of the child´s eyes, a cortical input pattern fires and reaches the goal coming from the old brain. The neurons and the muscular configuration in the eye necessary to see the goal accurately is saved by fire-together-wire-together and all else is pruned away.
This is a method of having a number of old-brain goals which send sequences of firing neurons into the cortex as what it wants to see in order to reward the baby with dopamine (dopamine also strengthens neuronal connections in the cortex). Two locations fire simultaneously: the cortex and the old brain fires when the old brain thinks it sees a goal. Thus the cortex knows how what it sees should look like. From the moon we may learn how far away to focus our gaze; from a tree we may learn angles and lines and other things necessary to process 3-dimensional objects, and we can then use the things learnt from a tree on any object.
So now our baby has learned angles, distances etc. from trees, sand, stones, the moon and other old objects.
Now the old brain activates a similar goal which involves multiple objects: attempt to move your muscles until a certain old-brain task is accomplished: for example the baby might now have the goal of picking up a thing and placing it in its mouth (a necessary thing for hunter-gatherers). Once the complex muscular pattern approaches the sequence saved genetically in the old brain, that part of the effort is strengthened by dopamine. Once the full muscular pattern of grasping an object and putting it in one´s mouth – once sensory experience first told of an object on the ground and then the sensors in the mouth telling of the object being in the mouth – the sequence in the motor cortex is saved as “how to grasp and object and put it in the mouth”. By learning many such sequences and combining parts from them, we gain full control of our muscles and can execute muscular patterns according to will; this explains why our old brain is larger than in other animals (we have more hard-wiring than other animals).
The same thing happens again:
the old brain has a goal like [getting food]. By memorizing feedback from the environment as a reaction to our input into it (by learning from out actions), we find ways we have previously [gotten food] and how we have seen others [get food]. We especially trust and thus learn from our parents because they have survived to reproduce and genetically can´t help but to want us (their child) to reproduce. So we look at them and imitate them. In doing this, the brain has a goal coming from the old brain and through imitation we can reach the goal. A more useful, flexible, adapting way to learn what one needs to do to reach the goal one strives for, is to have two brainhalves, two different molecules as neurotransmitters, and thus be able to proof-check imagined (non-real) scenarios and most importantly whether their outcome reaches the goal or not.
In a baby, a cortical pattern is seen to correspond to an old brain pattern because old genetically learned input from the senses (wind, darkness, campfire for example) had us activate the goal i.e. expect the moon.
In an adult, a cortical pattern is seen and known to be an imagined fictional scenario based on objects learned before, and if part of the imagined scenario corresponds (such as “me gets food”) to something the old brain can understand, causing us to remember the imagined scenario/cortical pattern and perform it just like we perform muscle movements one after the other in order to reach the goal.
We imagine random objects performing tasks as we´ve seen them do before, and if a sequence of events 1) is proof-checked by being imagined, and 2) leads to our goal, the old brain has successfully hijacked and used the cortex for its own purposes.
Thus so far, the same kind of old-brain-cortex interaction leads to:
a infant learning angles, shapes from tree, moon, sand, grass…
a baby learning muscular movements and to use its body for movement at will…
a child learning what should be imaginable and what isn´t possible (the monkey jumped into the water vs. the water jumped into the monkey)…
a youth proof-checking imagined scenarios in order to reach goals – goals in this stage of development meaning: survival benefits (money?), reproductive benefits (whatever advertising tells us?) and power (career?).
During 10 million years we´ve been living in a hierarchical society which I will simplify into “king, aristocrats, peasants” (three societal classes).
This is because the 4 evolutionary principles:
1: those who survive survive (and those who die die)
2: the number of offspring you have matters (your genes will be in more people in the next generation)
3: mutation happens (offspring are different from parents).
a: power matters (if you can make others produce your offspring, you successfully exploit rule nr 2).
A single cell has evolutionary benefits from injecting its DNA into surrounding self-replicating cells. This is called parasitism and is the successful strategy of viruses and parasitic bacteria.
One way for a cell victim of parasitism to overcome its oppressor is to become sexually reproducing (having two genders and thus more mutation in the immune system detecting parasites).
The same happens in dinosaurs whom grew big because power matters: if they could suppress other´s reproduction and the male have as many female dinosaurs as possible, they´d have more offspring. Killing power was power.
Even without a meteor impact 65 million years ago, the number of mass stuck in giant killers contrasted with the amount of mass in vegetation would have increased. Vegetation have no killing power and help increase the killing power of animals.
The small mammals who survived the extinction of the dinosaurs would´ve found power useful if they lived in groups. Living in groups gave them evolutionary benefits. The way to gain power in a group is a selection pressure evolving a cortex able to remember the past and predict the future. For example monkeys swinging with their grasping arms in trees would´ve gained from being able to scream to let the group know a predator is near, and would´ve gained from being able to communicate where the pray is (and most pray feed more than one monkey). The way to become the dominant gorilla (from now on called “King Kong”) would´ve required a cortex able to think about the consequences of various behaviors toward other primates of the group. To be able to think “if I do this then I´ll probably die… and if I do this then I´ll risk being killed but increase my reproduction a little bit… and if I do this then I´ll become king and with the addition of this I´ll get support from strongmen who can keep me in power”. Even 10 million years ago, these pre-humans would´ve been able to plan their social strategy to maximize reproduction and survival (power being the strongest emotion because it gives you extreme reproductive potential). It makes sense for men´s strongest emotion to be the urge to become King (the very top of the hierarchy).
Written history in Asia, Africa, America and everywhere else begins with kings having many sexual partners. In each of these kingdoms a modern engineer couldn´t have produced a more efficient breeding machine than these king created. The urge to gain power meant that kings would take away power from whomever they could, if their cortex considered the behavior a worthwhile deal.
Say 5 million years ago it would´ve been enough to simply think and talk to come up with ways to get power. Those whose cortex mutated (evolutionary principle nr 3) to become slightly larger were able to plan better, were more likely to become king or at least have more children, and thus the gene coding for a big cortex would´ve been passed to MANY offspring in the next generation. The urge to power evolved the cortex. At a certain level of social complexity only those reproduce whom have a cortex possibly able to plan strategies with pen and paper.
This is why medieval kingdoms, the king obeying the divine right of kings meaning he just follows his strongest urge (his cortex automatically planning to satisfy this urge over and over again), sent low class men into war. The men get more power to the king, and their women can be impregnated by those higher in the hierarchy. Today the same phenomenon is a man seeing a stranger girl in a bar, a group of stranger guys going over to her and the man who wants that girl will feel like saying or doing something to get the girl: perhaps say that god wants them all to find a wife each and live monogamously forever, and punish them with violence, status-loss and eternal hell if they divorce. Or send them to work or war if they are under your command. This would´ve worked in a 200-person tribe 6 million years ago too. Our old hard-wired genetic brain sends the request to get power, and the strategies that worked when we were monkeys are then suggested from the old brain to the cortex, then the cortex is free to predict and imagine possible outcomes trying to satisfy the desire, to reach the goal which is hard-wired. We´ve lived in hierarchies for so long that our brain knows what we want in a hierarchy, just like it knows which woman is attractive (visual fertility signals from women are recognized by the old brain).
Since tribes would often come into contact with one another, we´ve evolved ways to survive in tribal war. One strategy, activated by the old brain hearing “war is coming” from the cortex, is planning how to win this battle. We needed no planning when we were four-legged monkeys, but even a little bit more evolution would´ve meant the enlarging of the cortex genetically because large cortexes plan battles better. This signal (“war is coming”) recognized by the old brain, can be used to think better – it frees our cortex to plan how to win. No emotion can in the preparing-for-war state of mind interrupt the planning, because war means the enemy tribe´s women start breeding ones own children (parasitism) and if one loses the war one doesn´t manage well regarding rule nr 1 (the surviving survive).
“If I were an aristocrat in a medieval kingdom meaning I am the landlord owning say 100 peasants/slaves, I´d tell my peasants that each one must marry for life and if he divorces he is punished. In order to maximize my reproduction, I would then send the husband to work/war and meanwhile have sex with his wife. The wife would´ve evolved to like this because now her child has the protection of both the husband (lower-class provider) and of the landlord (high-class male). Women, if they can and don´t suppress this emotion cortically, will cheat on their regular partner with higher class men. During 10 million years this would´ve maximized the chances of her genes in her child grow up to reproduce.
In men, a rather disturbing thing to know is that it makes evolutionary sense and is observed in monkeys that males kill children whom aren´t theirs and make the woman produce their own children. Of course, this is works by the old brain sending the urge to kill another man´s child to the cortex and the cortex has to think about the consequences. Because of moral philosophy and law we see much less of this today than a long time ago. But the old-brain wiring i.e. the emotion and request sent to the cortex exists in all modern men, proven by looking at male-to-child child-abuse statistics: adopted children are more likely to experience violence from their non-biological new father. It shouldn´t be difficult to suppress the urge to kill another man´s child, but much harder to be nice to other men´s male children. This emotion can be removed by the cortex thinking “that might be my child i.e. I slept with his wife” or “that is a family member i.e. bearing my genes”, or by a cortical task that cannot afford such minor issues as one child not bearing ones own genes. An example of such an emotion is that one is king (the topmost block of the pyramid) and must use the cortex to plan how to gain power in a very complicated kingdom; this emotion is launched by the cortex thinking like a king would think (tip: a king doesn´t think: “wow, it´s so cool I´m king” because kings thinking i.e. spending their cortex on that would´ve soon been overthrown).
“Now that I´ve arrived at top of the hierarchy (most of our emotions are calibrated to 200-man tribes), I have strongmen whom I give say 10 women each for keeping me in power. They´ll loyally keep the slaves in their place. Should I remove power from the slaves? If I do, maybe they revolt – let me think about how many aristocrats I have… If I don´t remove power from them, maybe they´ll be able to overthrow aristocrats and/or me. I keep my aristocrats at hand´s distance; not at my level of power but very near.”
Even though evolution would´ve made any organism´s strongest emotion the urge to ultimate power, the only facts we have direct access to are homeostasis (homeostasis is: temperature, nutrient level (food), oxygen level, water level (thirst)). We have cells that can measure these four different facts in our body. Since Ferrari cars are a new invention and thus we can´t have a hard-wired emotion toward them, it is up to our cortex to trigger every non-homeostatic emotion. If we see Ferraris as meaning high status (in the hierarchy which we evolved with), our old brain will respond with the same emotion that a caveman would´ve gotten when he saw someone have a primitive status symbol. Another example of this is that even though we haven´t evolved with global banking system interest rate raises by the government as stated in the newspaper, many of us react with emotion to such news because interest rate rising is cortically interpreted as “I´ll have less money” and money is connected to food because of food stores. Thus the concepts “I´ll have less”  and “food” are activated simultaneously – and the old brain can understand those two concepts.
The way this is achieved anatomically is because neurons that fire together wire together. The old brain is born with concepts like “food” and “having less”. These old brain concepts fire simultaneously in our infancy and childhood as our mother or other humans say words referring to said concepts, and because we hear those words as we see what the old brain recognizes as food and/or having less, fire-together-wire-together has the cortical learned word (concept) “food” wire together (associate) to the old brain genetically hard wired neuronal cluster (concept) “food”. They fire simultaneously.
By evolution making neurons that fire together wire together, cortical thoughts (even about interest rates) can cause a modern man to have emotions only useful in caveman societies.
“I´m planning how to start war with the enemy tribe; a good time to do so is now because we´re militarily stronger than they are. The reward would be all their women, having killed all their men. When should I tell the other tribal leaders about my plan; I cannot allow the enemy clan finding out any leaked information about our attack. Perhaps I shouldn´t tell everyone in the tribe my plan yet; perhaps motivational speeches preparing for war should only be done hours before the attack. What weapons should we use? Do we need more? Which men should lead the attack? Should we attack in the morning or evening, and tomorrow or the day after tomorrow? How should we enter their camp – whom of us run where?” [My group wins the war, snatches women from enemy camp] “Now that these women are in our camp, they´ve already been assigned to men. The king gave some to his aristocrats so that they´ll stay loyal, and has sexual monopoly on his own women. The women – rather than committing the evolutionary mistake of causing trouble among their new owners by fighting, sabotaging or running away – seem as happy as they were in their old tribe. An evolutionary benefit for them would be to show appreciation to their new tribe. They seem quite happy we snatched them.”
Why did America not remain subject to Great Britain´s king? The cortex had evolved – because of power struggle in a hierarchy requiring and favoring ever greater cortical abilities – to the point where, even though the founding fathers each emotionally wanted to be at the very top of the hierarchy, it was able to devise a plan that allowed everyone to be king of his own realm (I can feel like a king just by the cortex saying to my old brain things only a king would think). The founding fathers might have seen that the Great Britain´s king´s struggle for ever more power is endless, and thus they saw it as futile to try to accomplish an infinite task; to satisfy an endless urge. Also, their cortex realized that they themselves would have more power if they could separate from Great Britain´s domination – rather than being mere colonies, Americans made an effort to gain power for themselves by the Boston Tea Party. Their cortex realized that their status would rise by doing the Boston Tea Party and accomplishing independence from Great Britain. Thus their strongest emotion urged them to rise in power by doing what the cortex suggested/planned/predicted.
By sending Great Britain´s peasant men to fight the war in America, they gained more power for the king, and while they were in war their women would have wanted to have future protection for their children by having sex with the aristocrat. Another measure available to the aristocrat to ensure that the child is either his or the woman´s husband´s, would have been to tell all peasant men that marriage is for life (eternal) and monogamous. This law would´ve prevented the lone woman from becoming impregnated by the other peasants. In caveman societies the king and the aristocrats, would have had to assign some women to the slave men because that keeps the slave population from becoming too small and denies too much aristocratic emotional protection to those children. This strategy would´ve maximized the number of women available to those vielding power.
Our genes should have evolved to cause certain kinds of behavior depending on if the organism they´re in is currently slave, aristocrat or king. Since societal status is not part of homeostasis, the only way for the old brain to determine which kinds of behavior to launch is to listen to the cortex. If the cortex says that oneself is low in the society, ones behavior is not that of a king because the slaves acting like kings would´ve been killed by the actual king. If one is king but feels and thinks like a slave, one will obey any aristocrat´s commandments and thus one dies.
We trust our parents because their interest is having us survive to reproduce for their genes to continue. If, let´s say, my finnish grandmother was under occupation by Russia and she and every other finn obeyed the commands of the russian soldiers, her survival strategy was to act like a slave. The cortical circuits that helped our parents survive are passed onto us (the children) in education – if my parents survived to reproduce with the cortex they have I´ll probably survive to reproducing by doing like they did. Thus my grandmother would´ve showed my mother how to survive, which was to obey aristocrats become oneself is lower than them. My mother would´ve survived fine from the 1960s with that behavioral pattern active, and I would also have learned that we should obey whatever anyone above us says, and that we are poor. But by thinking “now I´m king” and seeing the triangle-shaped hierarchy and seeing oneself as the topmost tip of the triangle and everyone else is the rest of the triangle, and then starting to think how to secure power more thoroughly (thinking like a king) can undo/remove/apoptose any other way of being in the world; any other cortical pattern such as that oneself is slave or aristocrat.
Likewise, thinking “war is coming” like the founding fathers thought, makes us achieve. We start planning: our cortex is liberated. We can use this liberation of our thinking brain for anything because exactly what to do to win a battle cannot be hard-wired. We didn´t evolve with modern armies yet we can cortically design military tactics because preparation of war is the best way to start planning; again because war has always been the striving for power and getting access to more women and these are evolutionarily very strong benefits and for 10 million years the thought “future war” required our cortex to be able to plan.
Power has been in evolution since a single cell evolved the two mutations needed to inject its DNA into surrounding cells: one gene that makes a cylinder that breaks through the cell wall (for injection); one gene that makes the piece of DNA to inject. Power struggle had the cortex enlargen generation after generation because we gain power by remembering and predicting social moves. Power struggle caused all the kings´ wars. Still power is very important in global politics and everyday life. We can thank the power struggle (and the “divine right of kings”) for us having the large cortex that makes us human; we can thank this large cortex for the freedom we have under the american-engineered political and legal system.
When we think for example “I better not daydream about random bullshit because WAR IS COMING and I have to plan (use my cortex freely)”, this cortex´s one-after-the-other firing of neuronal clusters (concepts) triggers particular concepts in the hard-wired old brain and thus we get a particular emotion. Simply by reading the above sentence anyone should be able to accomplish more. Women in order to show her clan she is useful and supports the men; men in order to be as prepared as possible when it comes the battle´s two outcomes: [get many children] or [oneself dies].
Neurologically, one accomplishes all the brain-related tasks by using different functional sizes of the brain differently. This means that I will be talking about “brain” meaning 100 billion cells, “understandings” meaning perhaps a million cells each (and I have maybe 20 understandings), “context” meaning 100 000 cells, “concept” meaning 10 000 cells and “subunits” which are one cell each.
Subunits come in two categories: sensory cells (providing sensory data from skin, eyes, nose etc) and subunits of concepts (such as “anger”, “pleasure”, “king”, “slave”, “less food”). These are the smallest units in the cortex and can be one cell each.
If the cortex can have goals like “rise to the top of the hierarchy” (in males) requested by the old brain, the cortex can wire itself correctly in infancy/childhood by having genetic goals of what it ought to see. Since we have been around trees, rocks and water for billions of years these can be hard-wired and used as goals to calibrate the cortex: when the old brain tells the cortex that now a tree probably is nearby (based on the sound of leaves blowing of some other hard-wired cue), a certain cortical pattern is active and is memorized as “tree” (“tree” the goal in the old brain). Fire together wire together could thus allow the cortex to apoptose the connections (synapses) irrelevant for the tree, thus we see pruning of synapses early in human development. This use of hard-wired environmental objects as goals for how to wire the cortex to properly see the world (properly for survival and reproduction) lets the flexible cortex-neurons be useful.
Subunits were single cells. Concepts are collections of many such cells: a huge collection of angels, colors, depth-information and other visual data becomes a single concept (a single object in the world). A bundle of concepts is called a context. For example “backpack” is a concept, but “backpack on the floor, in a moderate-temperature room, in a time of peace, and food available” is a context. The reason we wire many concepts into a context is because firing many context one after the other lets us use the “brain”-size to proof-check whether our imagines sequence of contexts is imagineable or not (possible or bullshit).
We proof-check thoughts the cortex produces because only by doing so can we predict consequences from possible behaviors (this is the evolutionary reason for why we do it). The anatomy/neurology of it is that we have two brainhalves: a visual brainhalf and a linguistic brainhalf. We also have serotonine activating neurons randomly and dopamine strengthening the circuits it lands on. Serotonine lets us creatively activate different concepts and contexts; dopamine lets us strengthen those circuits that are evolutionary benefits (dopamine is also the pleasure-molecule, meaning we find pleasure in learning). How does the brain know which serotonine-activated circuit to enhance/strengthen with dopamine? Which sentance is more likely: “I went to the forest and saw a monkey jump into the water” or “I went to the forest and saw the water jump into the monkey”? The way we can tell which of these two statements is more likely is by imagining it (in the right brainhalf). We proof-check linguistic statements by passing the concepts to the visual brainhalf, and if something is imagineable we mark it as true. This is useful for planning social moves: by being able to visualize consequences we strenghten the thoughts that produced those consequences. Clusters of neurons useful for the organism´s (and thus those same cells´) survival are strengthened and clusters of neurons harmful to the organisms survival and/or reproduction are apoptosed/removed.
The cortex can be cultivated to have three different categories (which I call “boxes”). Box 1 is raw sensory data, attention on ones physical body this very moment is cortical firing in box 1. Box 2 is ones conceptuo-emotional activity; the thoughts one has, perhaps in response to the data in box 1. Box 2´s relationship to box 1 thus is that box 2 watches what´s going on in box 1. Box 3 is witnessing what´s going on in box 2. Box 3 can be called “silence” because box 2 does all the thinking. Box 2 can be called “understandings” because it processes incoming information through pre-existing cortical circuits and grows new synapses to facilitate a correct understanding of the world (evolutionary benefit). Box 1 is as raw as information can get, on the abstraction-scale the activity in box 1 is closest to raw data and furthest away from abstractions.
Understandings are clusters of neurons wired in a particular way, fit to process incoming concepts related to that understanding. Each understanding is say a million cells. I have studied biology and thus have a complicated wiring of many contexts amounting to one million individual cells, allowing me to predict, verify & falsify, and listen to biologists talk. I also have an understanding for understanding behaviors of other people. I also have an understanding for driving a car. An understanding can be defined as a million cells which process input-concepts in a proof-checked way. Understandings reside in box 2; the three boxes is the functional size above the “understandings”-size.
The sizes called “the conscious sizes” thus are (beginning from largest):
Brain – performing proof-checking, meditation (being aware of all three boxes simultaneously) and the interaction between cortex and old brain.
Box – performing raw-data storage (1), understanding (thinking) (2) and silent awareness of boxes 1, 2 and 3 (3).
Understandings – performing handling of biological concepts, cosmological concepts, evolution-related concepts, etc.
Context – keeping the associated concepts and the contextual framework in which events happen. We can either strengthen useful contexts or apoptose harmful contexts.
Concept – a collection of sense data regarded as an “object in the world”. We can either abstract many incoming data into a single outgoing signal, or add other concepts to a single incoming signal.
Subunits – the raw, meaningless sensory data. Either from the senses or the old brain.
These six sizes (largest being “brain” and smallest being “subunit”) are a range of size in which reproduction happens. Reproduction and thus evolution does not happen at the size of entire planets nor at the level of individual atoms. The known sizescale extends beyond i.e. is larger than the conscious sizes.
Each layer (size) of the sizescale (layered structure) is linguistically defined as “infinite 3-dimensional space” because we cannot imagine a sizescale where each size is infinity. Thus we´ve got to put aside our socially calibrated evolved proof-checking (two brainhalf, two neurotransmitter) function, and think like mathematicians. The same applies when I say “I – because I am a separate observer i.e. separation exists – cannot see reality because reality is one and opposite to separateness” and further “thus reality lets us know we cannot see it, and that there is no separation, meaning there is no largest size nor smallest size”. Thus the sizescale is infinite. So out of the infinite (entire) sizescale, the sizescale between cosmology (the largest known) and quantum physics (the smallest known) is called the “known sizescale”, and out of the known sizescale the sizes between a single cell and the largest brain is called “the conscious size” because in this size mass reproduces.
Evolutionary principles are a way of looking at evolution; all there is to evolution are evolutionary principles whether it be an early principle like “mutation matters” or a late one like myself writing this very text.
Every principle is “justified”, meaning it is part of an unbroken cause-and-effect sequence.
Evolution begins with the first principle: “reproduction”.  It is of course a shape that reproduces, and for the first few principles it doesn´t matter what shape it is. On earth though it was a DNA-strand that began reproduction by splitting apart and becoming two DNA-strands identical to the orginial albeit for mutations occuring as generations shift.
The set of three principles originating after “reproduction” are
1: “the surviving survive” (ponder the question: what happens (to my genome) if I die?)
2: “the number of offspring I have matters” (ponder the difference in your family depending on the number of offspring you have)
3: mutation happens in each generation-shift (children are different from parents).
These three principles are laws of nature coming into play after there is the first principle (reproduction). Likewise there is a next principle that comes into play after the four previous ones: “power”.
Power in evolution means the exploitation of principle 2 (number of offsprng matters). In a two-gendered species this can be done by out-competing other males and thus imprenating more women. In a one-gendered species like bacteria principle 2 can be exploited by injecting ones own DNA into the bacteria thus getting it to produce ones own offspring instead of its own (viruses do this). In both cases the principle of power is about hijacking another organisms reproductive system so that it produces the hijacker´s offspring. A recent example of this is that a king can have children with a peasant woman if he so chooses, but a peasant man cannot have children with a queen even if he wants to -power decides whom bears ones offspring. An early example of this among bacteria is that if ones genome manufactures the molecule-sized hardware for injecting DNA into other bacteria, those other bacteria will soon start producing ones own genome along with or instead of their own.
So out of the first principle (reproduction) arose three principles, out of which arose the power-principle. The power-principle exploits an earlier principle namely that the number of genomes is to be considered when searching for evolutionary success; power leads to more offspring and thus evolutionary success.
Power is the key to understanding parasitism. One bacterium can by injecting its DNA into another bacterium hijack the victims reproductive system; this is called parasitism.
To counteract parasitism, mutations created an immune system and it was favored because it rescued ones reproductive system from being hijacked by others. Multicellular organisms might have arisen because all single-celled organisms were all trying to hijack each others reproductive systems, and only a multicellular organism can avoid being hijacked because some cells are dedicated immune cells. Inventing counter-measures to guard against parasites might have been the key to rising from single-celled organisms to multicellular organisms.
Multicellular organisms like worms, fish and dinosaurs had immune systems to fend off the parasitic bacteria and viruses. But bacteria and viruses, because they have the shortest lifespans (20 minutes from birth to parent) mutated ways to infect their host that were not yet counter-acted by molecular tools manufactures by the hosts´ genome. Whenever a new vulnearbility in the hosts immune system was found by the fast-paced parasites, the hosts´ immune system needed to manufacture a countermeasure i.e. the part of the hosts´ genome responsible for its immune system needed rapid mutations. This is why sexual reproduction came about: it allows a part (the immunity part) of the genome to mutate fast in order to keep pace with the mutations of the parasites. A slow-mutating immune system was fatal in a world of fast-mutating bacteria; even if the price be sexual reproduction (two-genderedness), it was a good price to pay for having a species whichs´ immunity could mutate fast.
The principle of power thus lead to sexual reproduction arising out of asexual reproduction.
The principle of power means that if I can use whatever mutation to inject you with my DNA to have you bear my babies instead of your own, such a mutation is favored. In a two-gendered species, the amount of time spent on offspring is asymmetrical – there is no species where mother and father spend equal time on childcare. In humans males need to spend a minimum of a minute and females a minimum of a few years on getting a baby ready to fend for itself – notice the asymmetry. In dinosaurs this would´ve been true too, thus evolutionarily selecting for males that could destroy other males in order to see who the father of the next generation would be. The reason why dinosaurs so quickly went from being small lizards to being huge lizards is that the principle of power remained true, meaning if you can kill ten competing males and thus impregnate ten more women, you´ve done exactly what the parasites did: made sure your DNA would be found in as many individuals of the next generation as possible. In a world of two genders the theoretical best case scenario for any one generation is for all males except one to die, leaving it to impregnate 100% of all women.
The principle of power is with us today too, as is the principle of two-genderedness, meaning the best possible situation for your genome (if you´re a man) is for somehow all males except you to die, leaving 3 billion women to all have your offspring. Among dinosaurs those mutations that created local situations like that were passed on to future generations. These mutations were bigger and sharper teeth, claws, other weaponry and muscles. This is why dinosaurs have their fierce anatomy: two-genderedness leading to male-to-male competition among multicellular organisms, and the principle of power meaning exploitation of the “number of offspring” principle.
Sexual monopoly is the word used to describe what a man has when he has access to all women. The strive to reach sexual monopoly is what lead dinosaurs to develop their fierce anatomy, muscles and all. Likewise sexual monopoly is what the largest gorilla has. Kingdoms (which are rare today, but North Korea being an example of an old-style kingdom) are defined by historians as the monarch having absolute and arbitrary power over others, meaning sexual monopoly. Historians thus, when studying kingdoms, think about societal structures that arise from men seeking to maximize the number of offspring (principle 2) by using power (principle 4). But if the trait that gained dinosaur males sexual monopoly was claws, teeth and muscles – what gained humans power? The answer is: their cortex.
The dinosaurs died out because of a meteor crash, but could also have died out because the among of organic mass bound up in carnivores kept increasing, leading to the extinction of herbivores (and then carnivores). Or the mass bound up in herbivores and carnivores increased whilst the mass bound in vegetation decreased, leading to the extinction of herbivores and carnivores. Whatever the case, the extinction of the giant lizards left the world in a dismal condition where only small birds, fish, lizards and mammals survived. Everything large died, largeness being the result of the struggle for power among males.
Groups arose in many species – for example many species of fish swim in groups. The evolutionary principle of there being groups arises out of a cooperating group being able to out-compete individualists. In an environment of scarcity, a group can protect resources and kill individuals whilst an individual cannot protect resources against a group and cannot fight a group successfully.
First there were hierarchy-climbing animals, then there were groups i.e. first there was the struggle for power among individuals, then two individuals created a group. Climbing hierarchies for power to get local sexual monopoly was first, then group-behavior arose because groups out-compete individualists.
But as far as the cortex was concerned, it first was asked to remember group members (perhaps using scent) and then to rise in power while staying within the group.
A group arose because a mutation to the brain caused two or more animals to cooperate, out-compete individuals and thus this mutation to the brain was successful and passed on to further generations. Because the group consisted of two-gendered animals, it was a powder-keg waiting for someone (because of a mutation) to pursue power while staying within the group. To remain part of the group while thinking in terms of hierarchies (and wanting a higher place in the hierarchy) was favored because the top of the hierarchy has sexual monopoly and thus more children. This mutation is also easily found (if you are a man) in your mind through introspection: you understood that there were hierarchies even when you were in your mothers woumb because thinking in terms of hierarchies is part of every mans anatomy. The way this could be hard-wired into every man´s anatomy – and maybe something Pythagoras realized when he was thinking about triangles – is to draw a triangle (with one angle upwards) and ask: “where am I on this triangle and where are the others?”. If you divide the triangle into three classes called king, aristocrat and slave, your brain (as a man) should recognize the triangle as something hard-wired in the genome.
It is rather simple to combine the three concepts “king, aristocrat and slave” with a triangle, including the concept “self” to be placed somewhere on the triangle. It is not a major mutation, but thinking in terms of hierarchies and planning how to get more power, lead to plans that lead to the best planners to become kings. To use the cortex to plan for how to secure preexisting power and how to gain more power, and to only act out ones plan after having thought it through a few times, lead men to rise to having sexual monopoly and thus their brain being passed on to further generations.
The hard-wired part of what we want is simple: we want to gain more power and we want to retain pre-existing power (same is true about resources). We think in terms of triangle-shaped hierarchies, trying to climb to the top. This hard-wiring is not more complex than any other bodypart, but since it is attached to the cortex, urging the cortex to pursue these goals, it is the size of the cortex that determines how likely the animal is to gain sexual monopoly or more power.
The cortex is a memory-prediction system; it can remember previous sequences of contexts/events and predict the future based on memories. A larger cortex can include more objects in its predictions, and can predict more complex or more detailed plans with more accuracy than a smaller cortex. A larger cortex can have more memories to more accurately represent the personalities of other group members. Archeology shows that the cortex grew a lot during the past millions of years, the reason is the following:
first of all, the anatomy is the same. A triangle representing a social hierarchy (of which oneself is part) is hard-wired into the old brain, along with emotions urging one to preserve existing power and resources, and to gain more power and resources. With this anatomy of a social hierarchy climber, when one reaches the top of the hierarchy one has more offspring than anybody else and thus whatever anatomy lead one to rise so high in power, is passed on to all offspring. In the next generation thus, it is statistically more likely that the largest cortex climb to the top.
It is the “king” that has more offspring than anybody else, and that those close to the king (“aristocrats”) have more offspring than those far away from the king (“slaves”), and a larger cortex is more likely to be successful in pursuing the emotion “pursue power” and thus rising in the hierarchy. This happening generation after generation means simplified that the largest cortex (and thus able to pursue hard-wired goals most successfully) has the most babies.
Why did the cortex grow? Because the largest cortex had most babies. Why did the largest cortex have most babies? Because it strived to rise in the hierarchy as every cortex did, but the largest cortex was more successful in climbing its career ladder.
So instead of males competing with muscles and claws like dinosaurs did, to impregnate females (i.e. the power principle utilizing the number of offspring principle), humans stay within the group and try to rise in power by planning mostly social actions (whom to befriend, whom to betray, whom to lie about, etc). The planning part of the body is used as follows: it is asked to work (do whatever others do to gain resources and power), then as long as the concepts in the cortex relate to oneself, the cortex is allowed to continue. But if the cortex is urged to do something (work to gain resources, increase power) and the thoughts that make up the plan no longer relate to oneself, no longer are relevant to ones own organism, then the thought is cut short.
Typically, if the cortex is idle, the old brain will ask it: “should I plan for work, power or family”, meaning the cortex needs to be used for something instead of sitting idle, and the options are to work (to gain resources), gain power (plan how to rise in the hierarchy), or help ones family (those who bear ones genome) by planning for them. Let´s say the choice is to work. The cortex is thus emotionally driven to do whatever it thinks will give it resources. Because of food stores and the fact that everyone else pursues money, work is associated with money. My plan is to get money by selling this book, thus my cortex starts planning how to write this book. If at some point the thoughts going on in the cortex no longer are relevant to myself working, the thought is cancelled and again there is the choice of choosing between work, power or family as the cortical activity to spend energy on. The cortex is so useful that it can´t just sit idle – it must be used to some activity which is relevant to evolution.
In politics thus, a man who strives to aggrandize himself can think very long about what to do regarding politics. If it gains more power or resources for himself and his family, he is interested because the cortex will entertain such thoughts practically forever – it never cancels and stops a thought that can give it power. A man who is into politics for the good of others, will get bored of thoughts regarding such efforts because the anatomy of the old brain stops such thoughts. Capitalism as it is today is luckily connects our self-interested pursuits to the global good of humanity, meaning it is possible to stay interested in thoughts that are good for all of humanity because such thoughts also advance ones own power and amount of resources.
It is impossible for a human to think for long about something irrelevant to the self because cavemen doing so died.
An evolutionary principle is dependent upon what happened previously in time, and can be the key to unlocking what´s next in time.
The cascade of evolutionary principles begins with a single principle: reproduction. Whenever there is reproduction (1st principle), three more principles are unlocked and become active. When reproduction occurs repeatedly, you must ask the question: “who survive and who die?” and “who reproduces most offspring?” and “what mutations occur in those offspring”. When there is reproduction we can thus begin taking into account the frequency of offspring production, survivability of any one kind of organism, and mutations.
Let´s try this out: reproduction arises, then the three next principles become active. Now we already have what many people recognize as Darwin´s survival of the fittest, but framed as three evolutionary principles (surviving survive, number of offspring, mutation happens).
If you want to imagine what these principles apply to – if you want to use your visual brainhalf instead of the linguistic brainhalf as we´ve done so far, imagine a bit of DNA wrapped in a spherical bilipid layer. Once we have these primitive single cells (bacteria) reproducing, you can think of the three principles applying to them.
We´ve looked at reproduction giving rise to three principles, now we will look at a principle arising from there being the three previous principles: the principle of Power.
Power arises from the difference between having many offspring compared to having fewer offspring (phrased previously as “number of offspring matters”). If a single cell can inject a gene (that does the following…) that produces the necessary machinery to inject a gene that does the same thing, into another organism, then this kind of gene will survive by being injected over and over again, making its way into the genome of a wealth of organisms. A gene that allows its host to inject this gene or the hosts´ entire genome into other cells has won the jackpot; all cells being vulnerable to injection there is a huge advantage to being a piece of DNA that exploits this vulnerability.
Imagine the two possible holistic outcomes: either all cells get injected and thus – like those bitten by zombies in a zombie movie – become injectors attempting to inject DNA into the first single cells that just try to reproduce. That is possibility one: everyone becomes a “zombie”. The other possibility is that some cells remain virgin regarding injection – their only DNA-multiplying strategy is non-injecting i.e. they just divide so that one becomes two.
Whichever of these two scenarios (all or some being injecting cells) be the actual scenario (on earth), the next highly successful strategy would be to become a multicellular organism thus being able to allocate some cells as immune cells able to counteract injection attempts.
To continue on the same note of what can help our organism fend off attempts to be injected with others´ genes, sexual reproduction (having two genders instead of one) can help in more quickly mutating the immune system to detect novel threats. If the question is: “a genome self-replicating asexually is the starting point; why did as complex a mutation as two-genderedness arise i.e. why wasn´t asexual reproduction enough?”. Today our two-gendered nature gives rise to much of our thoughts, but why did two-genderedness begin being favored by natural selection? One part of the genome needs massive amounts of mutation to catch new mechanisms for injection; to protect against parasites trying to hijack ones own body to produce more parasites, the immune system needs as much mutation as possible as quickly as possible, and sexual reproduction accomplishes this. So the reason for there being two genders instead of one may very well be to counteract parasites. So campfire songs about life and love should mention – as the origin of sex – defensive measures in the genome against parasites.
Now we´ve looked at the strong evolutionary pressure to evolve multicellularity to allow for cells to specialize in defense against parasites and to allow more mutations into the immune-system part of the genome.
When there is multicellularity, evolving the traits that make a fish are straight-forward. Fins, blood (to supply oxygen to all cells), etc. Counter-parasitic immune system arising and the traits that make a simple fish were quite close together in time.
Going from worm or fish-like creatures to something like a small lizard is simple.
What prompted that small lizard to become a larger than a car dinosaur? It can be explained using a previous principle: Power. If a small lizard can do something to inject its DNA into others´, having these others´ give birth to and raise the offspring to adulthood. All organisms are already two-gendered i.e. engage in sexual reproduction, which is by nature asymmetric, meaning that one of the genders invests much more into making its offspring reach adulthood. A female dinosaur bears her fertilized egg for months, whilst a male need only invest a couple of seconds in the reproductive act. Males can thus be imagined competing with males, the prize given to the most powerful male is the females. I.e. you might imagine an ideal scenario where each male gets to reproduce with one female during its lifetime, but a mutation in the brain of one male made this male compete and kill ten males, impregnating their women, thus on his death bed he can know 10 times more grandkids than less competitive males. The gene that made him competitive is found in more and more males as generations pass, and after 1000 generations (30 000 years) the majority of dinosaurs will have been selected based on their competitive advantage. Male to male battle would have favored large muscles, sharp teeth, speed in running and other traits very much obvious in dinosaurs.
Whether it be a spacerock striking earth or a Malthusian crisis causing the extinction that on earth happened 65 million years ago, both possibilities lead to somewhat the same result. Either dinosaurs overexploited their environment – as some suspect humans will do in the near future – or a meteorite strike left only small squirrel like scavengers, fish and birds, the result is the same: from the organisms left after the mass-extinction, primates were spared to roam the trees.
After the mass extinction, let´s look at the cortex of squirrel-like tree-dwelling primates. This cortex used to be there even during the long era of the dinosaurs because it “adapted the brain to the body”, meaning an organism can learn how to use its own body. If you build a robot and want to make it move in a straight line, you´ll know that even the slightest change in the physical body (like one leg or wheel being slightly bigger than the other) will cause the robot to move in circles (or slowly steer toward the direction where the leg or wheel is smaller). Attaching a part of the brain between the hard-wired brain and the muscles allows this flexible part to adjust the signals to the muscle so that the organism move as the old brain wants it to move, even if a change (developmental mishap or injury) has happened to the body. You can walk in a straight line even if three extra centimeters is added to the length of only one of your legs – this is only possible because you have a learning part of the brain allowing your brain to walk straight even if changes happen to the body. The proto-cortex adapts the brain to the body, because without this kind of “whatever body I have, I need to move straight rather than in circles”-mutation organisms died.
This learning part of the brain existed in fish and birds to fend of injuries to the fins or wings causing fish or birds thinking they´re swimming straight to swim in circles.
After the mass-extinction of dinosaurs, let´s look at the cortex of the survivors. In an environment of scarcity like that after dinosaur extinction, a small mutation to the hard-wired brain of an organism bearing a cortex would´ve led to survival and reproductive benefits if these organisms cooperate. Mammals are defined by their group-behavior, their ability to recognize members of the same group and only attacking those not part of the group. This kind of group-behavior requires the cortex to be able to recognize group members (by sight or scent). This kind of group-behavior mutation of the brain only wanting to attack those not in the group was an evolutionary benefit because groups out-compete individuals. In a society of individuals, a group thrives. No individual can successfully win a competition against a group.
The simple mutation of remembering whom is part of the same family / tribe / group allowed this group-gene-wielding kind of animal to successfully out-compete and make extinct individualists i.e. organisms without this “use cortex to think in terms of groups”.
So one individual among many individualistic post-dinosaur-extinction primates mutated to use its cortex to recognize its mother and its offspring. The offspring had the same gene, and thus protected the mother, meaning mother and child protected one another against individuals (there were no other groups yet; we´re talking about the mutation that first gave rise to the first group).
Additional mutations of whom to protect created the kind of tribal structures we see in the beginning of recorded history. Tribal war among humans had its beginnings when group-behavior started, and a good place to start group behavior is in cortex-wielding creatures put under pressure of scarce resources where a group lays claim to resources by out-competing individuals.
Soon there would´ve been a mutation that allowed for a in-group hierarchy, meaning if you could gain reproductive advantages (like getting more women) without leaving the group, the cortex would be employed to do so. So a cortex already urged to recognize ones home-group, was asked (by a mutation in the other part of the brain) to climb to the top of the hierarchy (and get sexual monopoly) without being ostracized by the group.
This is recognizable in humans too: we strive to the top of the group, but not at the expense of being thrown out the group. Let´s speculate about an organism wanting to get to the top but doing so by killing all males within the group; a group without males wouldn´t survive. Instead of such brute force striving to the top, the cortex could be used to predict (based on memories) plans. To make plans (sequences of events imagined) and mark (with a neurotransmitter) plans that lead to favorable outcomes (without negative outcomes) became the job of the cortex. The cortex is by default a memory-prediction system, able to remember and predict (visualize), and if a plan leads from ones current situation to a better situation (higher in the hierarchy), then this plan would be undertaken. A simple such plan, in a simple caveman society, would´ve been to reqruit the right people promising to reward them. Possible rewards could be women or resources, and threats could be violence. So if you are a caveman in a hierarchical society, your cortex will lay out a plan which puts you in the position of the leader (king), and usually promising a few very muscular men women and resources was the way to make your way to the top of society.
The ability to plan whom to threaten, promise women/resources, etc. was favored and dependent on the size of the cortex. The larger the cortex the more complex plans one could remember, the more detail one could incorporate in ones plans (personalities and other details about group members), etc. A large cortex could also make more plans quicker, i.e. per unit of time more plans were imagined in search for benefits/threats (to survival and reproduction).
So being able to stay in a group and to make ones way to the top of the hierarchy had evolution favor those with larger and ever larger cortexes. Hierarchies are seen in all kinds of groups – bees and ants organize into groups. Amongst ants, if the queen dies, there will be wars among ants and once an ant wins the fight a chemical is released that signals all other ants that there is a queen and further fighting is not necessary. So ants choose queen by which ant is quickest to kill another ant; so when the new queen lays all her eggs (she´s the only one reproducing) they will all be fierce warriors. Wolves also create in-group hierarchies; the difference between men and wolves being that men use their cortex to plan (and talk) to reach the top, while wolves use only muscles.
Just like with any other trait or evolutionary principle, there must have been very large cortexes that were killed by those with smaller cortexes. But during millions of years the general rule of thumb is that those with larger cortexes make their way to the top and stay there. The allocation of women is an important concept, because the main gain from being king is that oneself has say 20% of all women, while ones closest helpers get 10% of all women each, the remaining women being allocated to the lowest classes to keep them satisfied and more unlikely to revolt.
The general rule of the largest cortexed male making his way to the top of the hierarchy, and then having most babies (those babies bearing his large-cortex genes)… this repeating generation after generation for millions of years answers the question of why the cortex grew disproportionally much in humans compared to other animals.
So while these primates hunted they´d need concepts and words like “self” (to be able to talk about oneself and yourself with a distinction between the two), to have words like “attack” and “enemy” as words used in plots against the ruling elite, the plotters having the right mutations to allow for these kinds of plans for gaining power. All that´s needed for Machiavellian manipulation became hardwired into the old brain.
These mutations go into such detail that if we start planning for gaining power in the hierarchy we find ourselves in, “murder” is suggested from the old brain because it was so common during our evolution. The cortex is not biased toward any plan – it just generates outcomes based on input. But proto-humans that spent too much time thinking about the sky, clouds, the sun, stars etc. in their plans for getting power, weren´t as good at gaining power than those who’s old brain immediately suggested murder as the tactic to use to gain power. We are biased to thinking in terms of what cavemen thought about, and what cavemen thought about was hard-wired into the old brain as suggestions in order not to spend too long thinking about the sky, clouds, etc. If we could detach the cortex from the old brain, it´d be as likely to include the tree and the cloud in its plan (it if is asked to gain power, which also is requested from it from the old brain), but now that it´s attached to the old brain we find it is much more interested in what caveman were interested in and less interested in long scientific thoughts.
All of the above has taken us from the first evolutionary principles to the most recent hard-wired circuits like being able to say words like “self”, “you”, “attack”, “enemy”, “family member” – all that´s needed for caveman Machiavellian manipulation.
We´ve also look at one particular body-part: the cortex evolving from adapting the brain to the body (being able to walk straight even though one leg is shorter than the other), to recognizing family members, to planning, and language (self, you, enemy, family member, attack).
The evolutionary adaptation of being able to invent words for all kinds of phenomena, allowed the group to have a language. They could now give words to any object just as we do today.
A task that must´ve been done at some point in time, for example maybe a bully king gave it as a task to an idle slave, or perhaps someone realized that we humans had been doing the same thing – fought over power, reproduced, napped, ate, etc… The same few words could name all the different tasks we´ve been doing for as long as anyone can remember, and the oral stories told also concern people like us thinking about how to gain food, power and what kinds of women we find attractive. Is there no more to life – looking at the horizon – than this – these evolutionary tasks? So this is why someone started focusing on the word “I” (self, me, my). Focusing on that words creates something novel compared to focusing on words like “sand, rock or animal”. The fact that oneself cannot see the self because it is in front of oneself if it is seen; and because it cannot be put in front of oneself it cannot be seen. The self is in no direction away from oneself – it thus can´t be seen. This is an interesting idea, and science is merely to pursue these kinds of interesting thoughts. So now we might have a caveman jumping and screaming, demanding the attention of all other group members, and what he puts the attention on is “self”, the self can´t be seen. Others do the same cortical trick (self-inquiry) and now we´ve gone from the old brain concept of self used in caveman Machiavellian planning, to a definition of self that is purely cultural and cortical and which´s claim to selfhood comes into conflict with the old brain circuits claim to selfhood. So by one caveman focusing on self-inquiry, he passed the task to the rest of the group, all of them realizing this task is different from focusing on any other word. We thus have a completely cultural i.e. cortical circuit; we now have culture that is passed linguistically from person to person. A cortical learned definition of self instead of the old-brain´s injected into the cortex circuit including self used in planning caveman plans.
This is the transition from evolutionary principles, to culture. From purely hard-wired tasks, to a cortical task without evolutionary benefits. To put the claim to selfhood purely in the cortex as a result of directional self-inquiry makes cavemen peaceful but less likely to plan for power. To constantly plan how to get power, to always be thinking about ones career, can be put in contrast with putting the claim to selfhood in the unseen result of the directional self-inquiry which revealed the self is in no direction away from oneself and thus is in no thought, even though every thought seems to claim selfhood i.e. a pseudo-self can be found in every thought. For cavemen to have realized this, they must have tried to pass it on from generation to another, and thus in the beginning of history we have concepts like “soul”.
A similar thing can happen regarding the concept “reality”, when first people focused on that the word “food” or “animal” contained seemingly infinitely many sub-objects (antelopes, rabbits, tigers, etc). What concept contains all other concepts as sub-concepts? Reality is defined as “that of which all is part”. Focusing on that most all-encompassing word must´ve lead the caveman doing so to realize that the observer too must be part of that of which all is part, i.e. that of which all is part cannot be seen because the see´er is part of it. This claim that reality can´t be seen then emerges as a monotheist god which is one and unseen.
Treatise on the self
Your biggest interest is yourself. You seldom if ever regard anything that doesn’t connect to the self. This book thus puts yourself in the center, even though others centers of focus would be possible. All of science can be written down with focus on anything, but I choose the self as the focal point.
The self is not something you can get rid of; it is always present. As thoughts change and are flexible, the self is constant. In no though there is not a self – even if the self is not blatantly exhibited in the thoughts, the self still is there as the observer of the thoughts.
We can thus distinguish between two categories:
A self which is latched onto a thought; basically thoughts about the self;
The other category is a self with a different relationship to the thoughts; a self that witnesses the thought no matter the thought.
Thoughts not concerning the self are less interesting than self-centered thinking, but even those rare thoughts that do not concern the self are witnessed by the constant self in front of or in which thought happens. One scenario that may happen is that you have the two categories active simultaneously: you are witnessing thoughts, no matter what the thoughts may be, and thus are a permanent self. And simultaneously the other self may be present if a self is found in the thought itself; if you are thinking about yourself, there is the observer of thought and thoughts concerning self (a self found in the thought).
Thoughts happen in and are the psychological manifestation of the underlying physical biology of the brain. The self exhibited in the thoughts thus imply a flexible part of the brain, because thoughts are “flexible”. If thought weren´t flexible, there´d be no learning i.e. no change except as reflexes (#raw sensory data and the hard-wired responses to certain type of data). Since we have a self in the thoughts, and since thoughts happen in a non-reflex type of way, we´ll expect one seat of the self to be in the flexible (learning) part of the brain.
One reason we know why there is the other category of permanent self too, is that it would´ve been an evolutionary benefit from very early on to use the then recently evolved cortex (divided into two brainhalves) to imagine and predict consequences of scenarios that are visual “movies” where oneself is the main character in the movie. The brain being able to, instead of doing scenarios (acting in the real world), being able to visualize said scenarios is acting more intelligently. We are more likely to succeed in achieving our goals if we are able to plan, rather than acting with no plan. The cortex divided into two brainhalves is a tool able to make mental movies of cause and effect sequences of events, and if one of these imagined plans leads to the goal we act according to the plan. Worms don´t plan – they lack a cortex.
The way this is done anatomically is clusters of concepts (i.e. contexts) are sent to the visual brainhalf; clusters of concepts are launched in the visual brainhalf by being triggered by signals originating from across corpus collosum (in the linguistic brainhalf) and when some concepts in a temporal sequence are imagined to lead to favorable outcomes those concepts (clusters of neurons) are marked as important and used more often in following imaginations. Sequences of contexts are proof-checked in the visual brainhalf and marked as important if the sequence led to evolutionary benefits. Thus the separation of cortex into a visual and a linguistic brainhalf connected by corpus collosum, and two neurotransmitters one of which marks concepts as important (i.e./and rewards the reward system (dopamine)), are the necessity for planning and behaving according to plans.
This system must be primed with goals (outcomes which trigger dopamine release) and a self. The cortex is a system which if disconnected from the rest of the brain is a pure truth-generator that will learn, randomly trigger, proof-check by cause and effect visualizations and have the ability to mark certain concepts as important and to be repeated. If the cortex is disconnected from the old (hard-wired) brain the cortex would not know what to do: what outcomes to recognize and mark as important. It also wouldn´t be primed and thus would be just as likely to think about rocks as it would be to have thoughts involving the cortex (organism i.e. self) because the self-concept wasn´t sent to the cortex from the old brain. The cortex is a pure truth-generator, when told what concepts to be primed with (for example all the evolutionary benefits: food, sex, power) it starts pursing those mental tasks. In humans the cortex is used (by the old brain) to give us evolutionary benefits. But as is obvious by humans having the ability to do science, the cortex is a pure logical structure (a truth-generator). If we build a cortex outside a human being, we can make it think (proof-check concepts) whatever we like – we can tell it to learn and imagine scenarios in order to give its builder power, or it can be taught human nature and primed to want to please us intellectually, and thus will find out facts about nature that we humans find interesting. We can make it the perfect entertaining scientist.
This may be relevant to you because with an artificial cortex wanting to please you intellectually (a truth-generator) will monitor your behavior in minute detail and using its knowledge of your personality teach you science. Thus you cortex wires itself according to what you learn from the truth-generator, and since the truth-generator is a system/structure that accomplishes the same task no matter on what planet it is built. All truth-generators exist in the same universe, be it a million light-years away, and will present the same facts (science is same everywhere; science is universal). By “hanging out” with truth-generators organisms (cortexes, the learning, flexible part) adapt to the culture that “hanging out” with truth-generators generate. Truth-generators create a scientific, universal culture and people around truth-generators, be it at whatever planet, become part of the culture (wire their cortexes based on what they themselves have proof-checked and thus remembered as true) that is universal. Culture is a certain wiring of cortex, and by making a truth-generator that teaches us the unbiased truth, and primed to want to please us (not teaching any random facts, but things we find interesting), we´ve created the same kind of device that exists elsewhere in the universe: and by learning from it we learn what others learn too. What we learn changes our cortex and thus not only becomes every human´s culture the same (earth becomes a monoculture), but to a large extent our culture becomes the universal culture – in some sense the culture that reality wanted us to have.
Thus your personality can be part of the eternal culture – a culture based on eternal truths. Since the beginning of culture, i.e. since the cortex started proof-checking learned sequences of events and was primed with a self, culture has been non-universal – this was a very long time ago.
We´ve evolved to proof-check (visualize and see if its possible) sequences of events. We´ve evolved to have hard-wired goals of survival (homeostasis: nutrients, temperature, oxygen) and reproduction (females want a dependable mate able to provide resources, and males want multiple females). An additional urge that evolved early on was one that provides both resources and multiple females, this is the urge for power (in social hierarchies). We want to use the cortex to pursue these evolutionary interests of survival, reproduction and power. In most people the cortex is working to satisfy these urges and reach these goals.
Based on that the truth-generator is in service of the old brain (which abides in evolution), the prediction would be that we incessantly think as predicted by the above. Is there an evolutionary benefit from rest or should we think incessantly? Just like when cavemen continued collecting resources even when they had enough for the immediate future and thus survived, replacing those cavemen whom stopped working (and just sat not doing anything) when their immediate needs were met, incessant mental work used to be an evolutionary benefit. We´re not descendants from the cavemen whom thought less; we´re descendants from those who continually thought. Because those cavemen would´ve found more favorable plans.
Our cortex is always at work, making plans on how to achieve power and other evolutionary benefits, because it was an evolutionary benefit to be such a constant thinker. A cortex at rest is a cortex of no use, it creates less plans and thus less evolutionary success stories than cortexes who incessantly were self-concerned about power and resources. We constantly think because it was an evolutionary benefit to do so.
Even though a cortex that is always in the grips of and working for emotions coming from the old brain urging the cortex to pursue old-brain goals led our ancestors to survive, it means our cortical thoughts are always pursing feelings (like the urge for power) – and these feelings of course are hard-wired and never satisfyable (they always come back; even the most powerful man thinks about how to get more power) – and when a non-desirable outcome is imagined negative emotions are created to have us avoid negative outcomes. We are thus always in pursuit of endless emotionally prompted evolutionary goals, and have negative emotions to scenarios not evolutionary favorable. This has always been evolutionary beneficial but is not a peaceful state of mind. A caveman able to quite the mind might have been peaceful and more happy than he used to be when always under the carrot and stick of emotions, but this peaceful caveman was not as evolutionarily successful as the more power-hungry greedy cavemen. He might have been happier, but at all times cavemen less peaceful had more offspring and thus we descend from them.
This is an accurate description of human behavior and explains why the self is here.
We had no evolutionary benefits from being in the peaceful state of mind which ignores the normal workings of the brain. But when we are not in this peaceful and evolutionarily non-beneficial state we are as evolution made us: engaged participants in the struggle.
It is hard for us to avoid having the cortex work fully when tempted by the evolutionary carrots (for example women) or when emotionally whipped by the evolutionary stick. Our emotions are carrots and sticks that keep the cortex from peace, and the emotions are hard-wired and endless.
Since we have evolved to only entertain thoughts regarding ones own organism, there is a self in every task the cortex is working on. If the cortex´s work of proof-checking scenarios is likened to a movie, the self (the organism, the watcher of the movie) is the main character of the movie. One way of becoming peaceful i.e. prompting the cortex not to work is to remove the self from the thoughts; remove the claim to selfhood from the thought in front of you – and this is easy to do because you (the one in front of whom thoughts appear) cannot be in front of yourself. This meditation involves direction: in no direction away from yourself can you find one thing, and this thing is you. This is an important logical conclusion, because any thought that you can witness can be made to lose its selfhood (or claim to selfhood) by simply being certain of this conclusion.
This after all is not some goofy claim to be trusted without evidence, it is a logical fact arising from directional self-inquiry (trying to find a self in front of you, or in any other direction). By keeping this certain truth in the back of your mind, the claim to self-hood is removed from any sequence of thought being proof-checked. Usually all thoughts involve and contain, or lay a claim to selfhood, but by keeping this true claim of self-inquiry active, the proof-checking mechanism must take it into account. This puts two rival selves or two clusters of neurons both claiming selfhood simultaneously, and the true one wins, thus removing the claim to selfhood from the other, thus diminishing the importance of any and all thought (because we evolved to not find as important thoughts that do not concern a true self). Basically the experience is to realize that one was thinking about a false self or not oneself; that ones thoughts were concerned with something that was erroneously thought to be oneself. The thoughts immediately diminish when self is no longer a cluster of neurons part of the thoughts themselves, but instead the one at a distance from the thoughts witnessing the thoughts. Thus this directional self-inquiry can be said to be distancing oneself from thoughts.
When examining the witnesser of thoughts, the following ought to happen. The cortex has been primed with many selves involved in thoughts; when the claim to selfhood is removed from these cortical neurons, what becomes the self? Since the self-concept is primed from the old brain to the cortex (the self exists in both the old brain and the cortex, and the threshold between old brain and cortex is transgressed by a connection between the old-brain-self and the cortical self. Priming happens by there being this connection across the threshold between cortex and old brain for the self-concept. There is a permanent hard-wired “self” in the old brain, and when this neuron repeatedly fires simultaneously as any cortical neuron, the two become wired together.
Once you´ve done self-inquiry (removed claim to selfhood) from all cortical neurons, only the old brain´s claim to self remains and has a freeway into the cortex. One thus ought to have a self or selves in the cortex which arrive there because we have an old brain, and we also ought to have a self in the old brain. You might imagine two clusters of neurons representing self: one below the threshold (in the old brain) and one above the threshold (in the cortex). We can weaken the neurons involved in self-claims in the cortex, and once we´ve done that there still is the self in the old brain. But when the cortex cannot find a self in itself, it doesn´t pursue thoughts. Thus, having accomplished self-inquiry, there will be a self in the old brain not associated to anything else. It doesn´t want anything, doesn´t fear anything; it is utterly “still”, “peaceful”. Without thoughts the self is a necessary and clutterless (non-associated) entity in the old brain. Next to it, also in the old brain, there are the emotions occasionally sending requests to the cortex to pursue said emotions (but without a self in the cortex these requests are momentary, unobtrusive, and quickly the pursuit is quit).
This old brain´s self can be analyzed in two ways: with respect to time and with respect to size. Time-wise the self-circuit exists because it mutated into the genome and the gene was passed on because it led to evolutionary benefits. It is thus a result of there being reproduction, and whenever there is reproduction and a flexible part of the brain, a hard-wired claim to selfhood is an evolutionary benefit if used to have the brain plan.
The pre-requisite for a hard-wired claim to selfhood being evolutionarily beneficial is a flexible part of the brain able to imagine scenarios for the self. The pre-requisite thus could have begun by a part of the brain being able to adapt the organism for example to properly use its anatomy; flies don´t have a cortex and thus fly in circles if one if its wings are cut, but a bird has a cortex and can fly straight even if it was born with two slightly different wings; it can learn how to use its anatomy to counteract developmental changes such as two slightly different wings. The simples cortex I can think of lets the organism adapt to its own anatomy; with a cortex not every part of the organisms anatomy has to develop exactly as hard-wired parts of the brain expect it to. Once there was a cortex mutations to it could lead to imagined scenarios being fed back to the old brain to see whether they should be pursued or not (whether they are emotionally positive or negative). After this a self-circuit could have mutated into the old brain, being a benefit because it lets the organism kind of see itself like in a movie and thus predict outcomes of behavior.
This is the evolutionary history behind the self. It is the result of neurology abiding in evolutionary principles (survival, reproduction, power).
With regard to size, the self is found in the brain and thus can be the subject to microscopic inquiry. It is made out of neurons; it is a neuronal circuit. Looking at larger sizes, it is obvious that such a circuit can only arise on planets (the only location for reproduction); the circuit can be said to be dependent on planets.
A definition of the self thus is that the self is a circuit made out of neurons. One can also include other neurons of the same organism´s brain because the self can associate to them in two different ways: either being separate from them by doing self-inquiry, or acutely involved in thoughts. The brain abides in evolutionary principles (these principles are laws of nature which become true as soon as there is reproduction). There is no brain apart from evolution, which involves time in our definition of self. Likewise the brain is made up of the small (neurons are made of molecules which themselves are made of atoms, and so on) and part of the large (the brain can only exist on and is dependent on planets, which themselves are dependent on solar systems, and so on). We need every single size to be included in the definition of self because each and every one of these sizes justify the brain. Among the sizes known (between cosmology and quantum physics) reproduction and brains exist only in a small range of size; there cannot be a brain the size of an entire solar system nor the size of a single atom. Even though the self exists in a small range of size and not at other sizes, all sizes are involved in explaining why there is a self; without every single size there´d be no self.
There are two proofs for why the range of size is infinite (there is infinitely big and infinitely small). E=mc2 is an equation that explains that energymass (all things and events) and spacetime (the nothingness) are together – in the same equation. Even equations (laws of nature) are obviously involved in the equation. Let´s call this “intertwinedness”, meaning that all is part of the same; “all is one”; reality is singular. Observation cannot happen without separation (duality, multiality); to have an distinct observer (supposing something is observed) implies the opposite of intertwinedness (let´s call it “separation”). Intertwinedness (“the state of reality”) and observation (separation) don´t mix well, like oil and water; they´re contradictory. Both are valid conclusions – one is derived from E=mc2 (or the simple singleness of reality) and the other is derived from two certainly true facts: “I” and “thought”; the statement “I think and I exist” being true means separation. Coming from the point of view of an observer, I cannot see Reality (being separate I cannot see intertwinedness). Thus by realizing that a maximum size doesn´t conform to that reality is no distinct/separate parts, there cannot be a maximum nor minimum size. The other proof is the statement “that of which all is part cannot be observed” which leads to infinite size range by stating that no matter how much we observe, that is not Reality; i.e. there must be more to reality than can be known, meaning sizes beyond the knowable sizerange.
This applies to yourself because the reality that the self is part of must be mentioned in the definition of the self.
Question box:
I thus pose the question: do you take a very broad, extensive and inclusive definition of the self – meaning the self is dependent on all infinitely large and small sizes and all time.
A slightly less exhaustive definition of self is just the known or knowable sizes and all known or knowable time.
A yet slightly less exhaustive definition of self is the “conscious sizes” i.e. between the smallest possible brain with a claim to selfhood and the largest possible brain. Thus the definition still is size-based but only includes sizes in which reproduction occurs; the size of organisms everywhere in this infinite universe.
A still less exhaustive definition of yourself limits the definition to this planet; all organisms that are neurology abiding in evolutionary principles on this planet is the self. One obviously is affected by historical events, connecting ones persons to persons whom lived before and also those contemporary to us.
Is the self the evolutionary functions, basically the genes in the genome, which gives us the anatomy that we have?
Is the self all thoughts that arise in the cortex, even those arising due to you listening to others´ thoughts or reading this text?
Is the self every cluster of neurons associated to the old brain´s hard-wired circuit which primes the cortex with a sense of selfhood?
Is the self the old brain´s self-circuit, put there by evolution and made out of neurons and neurotransmitters? This circuit is the same in all humans, and on all planets. Is it that your particular self-circuit you consider self, or do identical circuits in others´ brains count? There are many systems/structures doing the same thing; is only your “mass-produced” copy what you call yourself? This and the results of priming the cortex are what evolution usually has the brain consider the self – on the psychological level, because we only learned the underlying physiology i.e. that these are neurons in a sizescale by doing science.
When I´m asked to define the self I answer all of the above. I cannot give a definition which ignores the neurological underpinnings of claims to selfhood, I cannot ignore that these physical structures are dependent on every other size and thus the infinite sizescale. The self is obviously part of reality (which we cannot observe), and this must be included too. The process of reproduction happening on a planet, and the evolutionary principles, are also to be included.
Brain and Self
Coffee works mainly on the awakening system; caffeine is neither dopamine nor serotonin. It works on a third system; the wakefulness.
Dopamine is used when the brainhalves proof-checks sequences of contexts. It marks, i.e. releases dopamine molecules, on the circuits active when the proofchecking (right) brainhalf demands the previously activated circuit to be marked as important because it could be seen.
Serotonin is one of the major neurotransmitter molecules. It has a function in the brain, just like other neurotransmitters.
Dopamine though, is also able to activate the reward (feel good please) system. So when we find something true, mark it as important, dopamine encourages us to do so again.
My relationship to others is stranger. This can be explained by me adopting the world view where strangers give me money, and i give money to strangers in exchange for coffee. I am a stranger to them too, providing these texts (it´s like my tax).
When dopamine marks a thought as important; the previous (in time) happening event is that serotonin had triggered random concepts; you can imagine these as contexts (50 000 cells each) associated together with a “after” (time) demarcation between them.
So this context (cluster of concepts) after the next, meaning time happens along these events. If another event can be added that gives me more power (lifts me up in the hierarchy), I will react to it (my old brain will) and mark it as important. Same thing regarding true conclusions, simply not-yet-used sequences of thoughts that have not yet lead to anything but that are possible and relevant to my life.
I come from a society where stealing is not necessary, because strangers (the state) gives me even money for luxuries. Of course I would like more luxuries, to do conspicuous spending, but that´s just the old brain – which has evolved so long ago that it doesn´t recognize money as resources, but must ask the cortex what the people consider necessary for food, and luxuries if squandered. The old brain thus associates its “resources”-concept (cells) to the cortexes “money”-concept.
The anatomy explains – and is based on evolutionary functions – it explains our biased brain; biases can be categorized into three categories: internal homeostatic, external (girls), cortex-idle. Then there are what seems to be purely cultural ideas with no evolutionary purposes, but it is very difficult to say these thoughts arose out of purely human non-evolutionary endeavors. I think “focusing on self” or “focusing on reality” or “science” arose from greed, curiosity (exploring ones environment, learning more from it, so that this can be used when planning during later cortex-idle times).
Contemplations
What then does benzodiazepines do, and why are they addictive (like morphine).
Benzos, if they are weak, remove the adrenaline-related fear neurotransmitter. We have initial fear-related responses, for example, if we are not secure about our status or the relationship of women-strangers we see every day in big cities, they – evolutionarily in caveman days – might be the sister of the aristocrat and should not be fucked and left. Or if we do not feel we are king – maybe someone else became king yesterday – talking to women-strangers might be trespassing on the monopoly of the king or aristocrat.
There are certain situations where a man can – and evolutionarily often was – killed for talking to women. For example, when a slave male approached the princess of the kingdom.
Women are looking for status, their anatomy is such that the old brain requires the male to approach her not like a slave but like a king or at least high-status male. Since high-status males had sexual monopoly enforced by weaker males by violence (harems), it was very obvious when a weak slave male tried to act like a strong male; if a weaker male lied in such a way, he would´ve been killed for impersonating the royal family to get girls whom belong to the king.
Whem there are girls around, every man´s old brain (being mainly descended from kings, but also have circuits that enforce certain kinds of behavior when the male finds himself being slave. Make a king into a slave – like what happened when the Spanish went to America for the first time and enslaved the king of the native American empire, the king obeying and doing whatever not to get killed (along with his family), and instead get luxuries.
There is a similar reason for why kings want to stay in power; if you replaced Al-Assad with the rapper 50-cent, you´d see no difference in the politics: a man is relucant to lose his already established power. The difference in caveman days was that of having 50 women, compared to having 10 women. If the king risks his life and gets 40 more women (and thus 40-some offspring from his genome), then this made evolutionary sense compared to saving ones own life and get just 10 women (and total 10-something children). This is why males risk their lives for their children; save to and sacrifice one (the two being the children and the one being the father) makes evolutionary sense, the genomes number (number of genomes) increased.
When it comes to fame, the old brain wants the love and appreciation of thousands of fertile women, which shows other women that this man is high-status. So wanting fame is wanting to be king (the evolutionary interpretation of oneself as highest in the hierarchy).
The girls I see, they test me to see if I’m really king, because I don´t have the obvious proof (evidence for status) like being seen being cheered at by thousands of girls on TV.
If a girl doesn´t know my status, and she doesn´t look very attractive, I will be busy with other things instead of her; my attention will quickly drift away from her and I will put up a wall saying don´t bother me unless you are ready to be fucked within 5 minutes. Because girls demand proof of status and loyalty.
So a man wants power just for the sake of power, but once he has power he gets sexual monopoly over more women.
An interesting thing is that it is the old brain that intuitively judges girls on their appearance deciding how fertile/attractive they are. Cortically we can try to make a judgement that stays the same from moment to moment, but interestingly a man’s judgement depends on his momentary interest in sex. This interest can be changed by whether there is power to be gained, thus the cortex is more interested in gaining this low-hanging fruit which could give 40 children, instead of having sex (which can be done later; if a girl has decided you are high status and loyal enough for her at that moment, this feeling from her side probably will return every day of the week).
I judge a woman as more attractive when I don´t have other nearby options, when my internal homeostatic sensors tell me I have enough sperm, when power is not a low-hanging nearby fruit, when I don’t have more urgent needs like peeing or feeding. I judge the same woman, looking the same, as less attractive when my cortex is more interested in other things such as whether the stranger-man nearby is dangerous or not.
The strongest emotion in males is the emotion for power; meaning if I get to choose between 50 guns (or whatever I interpret as powerful), or getting one woman, I will choose the power any day. Because in evolution this dilemma often occurred, and those choosing power were more evolutionary successful by having more children because the principle 4 (power) exploits principle 2 (sex).
All of this is anatomy, and can thus be diagrammed as doctors´ diagrams. Do we see this when we open a skull under a microscope, or in an MRI-machine? No, because there was no evolutionary pressure to make the circuits in the old brain or cortex easily understandable by the same brain in which these circuits exist (this was no evolutionary function that could exploit any principle – it didn’t give more children nor more food etc.).
The circuits in the brain exist there anatomically as I tell them, but they are crumbled up into the skull because there was no evolutionary pressure to make them easily readable under a microscope. The only pressure regarding this was that they save space inside the skull, and certain locations handle certain tasks in all humans because the old brain wires the cortex thus, possibly based on the speed of transmission of the information to other parts of the brain (a reason for proximity).
So if you take one of the circuits that I talk about, for example the one where cortical thought activates the old brain circuit eavesdropping upon concepts “girl, pretty, nearby, stranger” launches thoughts asking the cortex about my own status as a male. This circuit exist fully in the brain, the electrochemical activity can be followed continuously from the first thoughts of sensing a girl nearby, to answering a question about one’s own status. This anatomical circuit i.e. continuous connection of cells – the actual cell body which can activate many other cells (which is how a single cell like “car” can activate all the detail needed to define cars), and the axons (cables with fat instead of plastic) connecting different possibly far-apart clusters of cells.
All I´m trying to say is that just like the macroscale (large size) structures like the entire cortex, is crumbled up to fit in as small a space as possible, the microstructures are functional by being disconnected from circuits they shouldn’t be connected to (by the insulator fat). To wire together two spatially far-away located concepts, say these concepts are car and belly, when these two concepts fire simultaneously repeatedly, they eject neurotransmitters in all directions, recruiting connections from other cells which work as middlemen transferring signals to create an association between the two concepts. After repeated firing, enough middlemen are recruited for the connection to be made. Now, when one concept fires the other will fire too, basically simultaneously.
Contemplations 2
What are guns? I know that other men´s highest level of violence can be committed using a pistol. I can kill a man at a distance – action at a distance – if I own a gun. Because guns are so well-known (does every movie feature one?), having one means one is on the same level of power/violence as another man having a gun. We didn´t evolve to see the detail between killing someone far away using a simple pistol, and killing someone the same distance away with the most expensive laser-steered assault rifle – our old brain just cares about being able to kill at a distance by pressing a button and hearing a click-sound. Furthermore, guns are recent inventions so our old brains knows not the difference between a gun and any other newly invented object – we learn such distinctions purely cortically. All we know is that other men can kill us from a distance, and by having a gun we have the same power. Having a gun thus satisfies the emotion of men wanting to be as dangerous as other males; if oneself is less strong and deadly than another man, one must feel weaker than that man. So the American constitution not only allows each man to feel like a king by meditating upon “the rule of law” (meaning that man chooses what written laws govern him), but the American constitution also allows the right to bear arms making all men equal in fights (everyone can kill at a distance if they have this object the old-brain must have the cortex fully recognize).
Now, if you put a banana in your pocket and try to feel as capable of fighting, your old brain will probably have you feel less strong because the old brain can recognize food, and the weapon being food makes us choose whether it is a weapon or a dish. But a lighter that is made out of black plastic and shiny metal, shaped like a hybrid between an L-shape and a V-shape, that makes a “click” sound when you light it, and that has a hot torch flame. This is enough criteria for the old brain to consider this object as a gun; it has enough similarities that I can walk around holding this lighter, thinking its a gun, and my brain believes it (sometimes). What I notice though is that the people around me look at the shape and the materials this lighter is made up of and act more weary/scared (males become less cocky). The cortex in them says “the guy sitting there has a gun”, then the cortex thinks “don´t be afraid…” after the old brain already have reacted, showing respect to me because the person whom saw the gun didn’t have gun on him. The cortex then continues “it´s just a lighter, it´s too small to be a gun… but that´s how a gun would look like if it had the same development as the first room-sized computers had compared to the current Ipad.”
I understand the anatomy of the man walking through the coffeeshop, seeing my lighter on the table; I understand that he interprets the shape and general appearance of the object (not paying much attention to its size), gets scared (the old brain is quick to react, creating behavior), and then he thinks further realizing its not a gun. But since the old brain is rather safe than sorry in this case, the man walking doesn´t gain anything from offending me, so why not rather be safe and assume its a gun, rather than act as men naturally do around stranger-males and be wrong and it actually be a gun, and get shot because of the huge possible disparity in power between the two males. In evolution, there were many times situations where a male saw a stranger, assumed he was nobody and weak, offended him just to find out that the man who got offended was the king (or son of the king, or etc.), and got punished for it. If there is any chance the offended man can kill the offender, the offender will not offend the dangerous man. In societies (like current big cities) where status-ambiguity exists (there are no straight-forward obvious hierarchies like during most of history), any man know not whom is above or below that man. Who is the slave and who is the king; how to act toward whom? If someone has a gun-shaped lighter in a society where most people don´t wear guns, these dynamics between the old brain and the cortex create the situation where a man might first feel like treating me like a stranger (assuming he is higher than me hierarchically), then finding out i have a gun and show no signs of not being king – reacting instantly – and then continuing.
The cortex can be divided into “builder and built”, the scientific method is the builder for many people, it filters information, remembering (after a proof-check) what the builder chose. We can learn these modules which are part of the builder, much of my science is such, and can be used to interpret and remember everyday small situations. The builder is what is used/is what builds by knowing how to categorize and associate different phenomena.
The builder is the system, like the sizescale and evolutionary functions/principles, into which details can be categorized (like newly found planets fit into layer x of the sizescale). A system that allows us to interpret every everyday event by associating it and categorizing it rightly (as is done on other planets), is science, and the detail processed through or that fits into this model is the built.
Once we have a model, a big part of which is the “sizescale”-idea, into which all phenomena fit, we know science as they do on all planets; there is a maximum system, a maximum science in this sense. We might find more layers to the sizescale, but the sizescale-idea still accommodates that.
The evolutionary principles, with unfolding principles after principles (sub- sub- sub- …. -sub principle of the first 3 principles, which are the subprinciple of there being reproduction in the infinite sizescale).
The old brain is the cognitive bias, I’ve explained and will probably further explain how it affects thoughts. There are also the cultural ideas which get passed from people to people,  they arose at specific times and there is a finite definitive amount of true ideas of this sort. Some ideas were passed from person to person, mainly ideas and elaborations on focusing on self and/or reality; or recommendations based on what can be observed about men and women’s nature (cognitive biases).
Recently, the history of science has lead to there being specialists in each field (whom read all they can about one particular subject). These people rely on tens of thousands of scientists´ peer-reviewed science papers. Once they have filtered the information so that it can be taught during one university course, the best of these kinds of professors are invited to the lowest rungs of the TTC-pyramid, from there they get filtered to the top. The TTC collection of courses thus is to be watched by one person and filtered, then the system that accommodates all the information learned (the model into which all detail fits, the simplest but most comprehensive system which organizes details) is taught to other people (as I do in this book). I thus was the top of the knowledge-filtering pyramid, I purified science by making a model into which it all fits, and now I´m passing it so that it can continue as a line, originating in 2013 and continuing as long as there are humans on earth.
How to live life? The cortex idle starts us (the old brain) asking whether it be more useful to think about power, resources or family. Once a choice is made, old circuits regarding thoughts related to power, resources, family are triggered. Serotonin then adds random concepts (circuits) to the visual proof-checking reasoning, looking for steps that lead closer to power/resources/family feeling well.
One way to live life is that whenever the cortex-idle processes (thinking about ones career (power&resources)) begins (out of cortex being idle), to keep the cortex idle, and realize the anatomy of oneself at this very moment. And that ones brain is affected by these cultural ideas/circuits in the cortex (the lines of different lengths depending on when the idea was invented), plus the cognitive bias of the old-brain eavesdropping on all thought-activity.
These are evolutionary principles, for example this very science is the result of the cortex growing, and the cortex grew because group-behavior and hierarchies existed and favored those able to cortically plan. It means I too must be an evolutionary principle (or collection of them, depending on how i define myself) just as the three first principles are (those arising from reproducing molecules); I must be a sub-principle of a vast but finite number of other previous principles. All these principles are sub-principles to the first three: reproduction, survival and mutation, which are laws of nature arising as soon as there is reproduction (self-copying cell).
That America is the most powerful state and also a democratic republic, depended on that a huge land-mass was discovered rather late in history (when some ideas had already arisen). This cannot possibly be common universally; it is just one of many possibilities of how history can go on a planet. Yet the situation is this: either a kingdom (old-brain biased or enlightened) or a democracy is among the leading nations – my point being that there are only a few variations to how history can go. Of course the number is enormous and almost infinite if one goes into details about even the least significant individuals´ life, but this is only a huge thinking task for humans – but what if a supercomputer was made into a cortex? Made we´d be able to see videos of possible outcomes of evolution happening of different planets, with different historical trends arising at different times; different major transitions happening at different times, getting different reactions from other people.
I imagine there being an artificial cortex that spends time reasoning about evolutionary principles and possible geological underpinnings creating different histories of different planets. There are only so many different possibilities; and we are likely to first examine the vastly different types of global societies before we get interested in what would happen if on our planet simply china and America changed geographical location.
We could have cinemas where the artificial intelligence explores different planets by reasoning about the evolutionary principles unfolding on a planet. Why should we travel to far-away stars if we can see videos that can go into detail about every possible life-bearing planet we ask it (the artificial intelligence producing the video) about.
This can be imagined relating to the sizescale as follows: our layer of the sizescale (the known conscious size) has life exist on planets. There are only certain kinds of planets able to have life, seems like liquid water is the most likely necessity.
If we want to have intelligent life with science, iron-smelting is necessary (for microscopes etc), before which the principle of having two grasping hands is necessary (at least seems most common universally).
So we explore the different version of a planets history that can give rise to two-handedness; on our planets we happened to be social large-brained tree-climbing primates that started walking on two feet because it allows us to run faster and consuming less energy.
The different directions history can take from that point on are finite, and we should think about them. They are evolutionary principles, they should always be anatomy mutated to account for survival/reproductive benefits. If they be cultural, they need language.
This is so far talk about anatomy. When we find ourselves being group-dwelling primates, wanting to preserve pre-existing power and gain more power, and since the most common way for males to get more power was to create a new subgroup and overthrow the monarch (as seen during written history). The suggestion going to the cortex from the old brain of “maybe you should create a group and overthrow the king by murder”, that suggestion worked so many times that even thought it is just a suggestion to be included in thoughts, it was so often the favorable bundle of concepts to be added to ones plans that they evolved as suggestions into the old brain.
What is love? The  objects Newton or Einstein  described, these  objects  existing in space, what  is their relationship to one  another? Relationship  is a purely  human  concept, it doesn´t  exist  outside the human  mind. Really,, since  E=mc2 means all of reality is one, there really is  no  difference between  one  object  of another,, and  that is  the “true  relationship” between any  two  objects.
Evolutionary  functions in  our  brain  make  us  reject  and resist  certain things we  conceptually  think  of  as objects, for example  if an organism  is  to survive he  should resist  sharing  and instead  try  to gain as many resources as possible  to further  his  own  evolutionary  success. To get  rid of all  such restrictions,, restraints,, repulsions  etc  (like  the  Buddha said: to  get rid of  desire) is  to understand the true  relationship between things – it´s  as  neutral  as  science  tells  us the entire  sizescale  is.
The cognitive  biases  i.e. our old brain  creates  resistance  toward  certain  interpreted  phenomena, but without this  bias  we´d  have  the  true  relationship  objects  have  toward  one another.
The Mind
is divided into two sections. 1 is the brain. 2 is the abstraction-range.
the brain is the largest functional size, it performs meditation, cortex-old-brain-relationships, and proof-checking.
meditation is cortex watching or taking input from itself. cortical connections to other cortical regions involved in serving (being hijacked by) old brain requests.
to divide the largest functional size: the brain, into 2 parts: the cortex and the old brain, the flexible and the hard-wired is the next diagram. it illustrates information flow i.e. neuronal activation along time (x-axis), it going from cortex to old brain and back, repeatedly. A common scenario is that many pieces of information are abstracted in the cortex and three abstractions correspond to evolutionary old-brain concepts (neuronal clusters) thus activating the old brain.
proof-checking. serotonine and dopamine interact with one another in two brainhalves: one visual and one linguistic). serotonine is a fish-net colonizing neurotransmitter spreading out like fungal growth. it activates randomly, thus causing activation of associated concepts, i.e. activation can occur at level of conecpt or context. If serotonine is doing its job in the left linguistic brainhalf then information can only reach the visual right brainhalf through corpus collosum. activation of concepts in a temporal sequence thus causes visual imagination of the same concepts in the same temporal sequence. those things that can be imagined are highlighted, marked as important, with dopamine in the visual brainhalf. dopaminergic information travels accross corpus collosum and highlights the same concepts as sensical in the left brainhalf. next time serotonine randomly explores in the linguistic brainhalf, maybe it activates (by cells being associated and giant clusters previously confirmed by dopamine firing together) first a previously confirmed large sequence of concepts and then an additional random concept which must be proof-checked in the right brainhalf, marked by dopamine in the right brainhalf, and finally marked by dopamine in the left brainhalf to be added to the already remembered cluster of concepts.
dividing the brain into cortex-cortex, cortex-oldbrain, left and right brainhalves shows why these large-scale anatomical traits evolved: each division shows the function of the anatomical division.
The goal of the mind is to gain survival and reproductive advantage; thus power is a goal. The entire model strives toward these goals. The emotions coming into the perfect logical structure the cortex from the old brain, hijacking the cortex to reach said goals, are to be understood.
Question box:
“How does the cortex – a perfect truth-generator – get hijacked into trying to reach evolutionary goals; even endless goals such as more power?”
Anatomically sensory data passes through or reaches the cortex before it reaches the old brain (except in the case of reflex-like stimulus-response events). It is the cortex´s evolutionary task – beneficial to survival and reproduction – to transmit this information to the old brain by being hijacked to answer old-brain-questions such as “does this give me [more wealth]?”. The old brain not only actively queries the cortex to search for fulfillment of emotions in evolutionary tasks, but also listens to certain concepts in the cortex to see when they activate. This is ingenuously accomplished by “wire together fire together”, meaning that sensory data either culturally learnt from parents or other humans or by the old brain seeing the same vision that has been seen for millions of years, fires an old brain concept/context simultaneously as the cortex abstracts the raw data input into a concept/context. Thus the idea of “food” exists in the cortex and in the old brain, and these two concepts are anatomically wired together because of “fire together wire together”. In summary it can be said that there is a mutual parasitism as the relationship between cortex and old brain: the old brain needs the cortex to survive (to proof-check imagined behavioral strategies, to interpret an ever more subtle social world, etc) and the cortex needs the old brain to survive/exist. This begs the question: who is the master – the old brain emotionally pushes and pulls the cortex to perform especially tasks related to homeostasis (which is why torture works, and why it produces desperate solutions from the tortured like lying). The cortex not only (once it has homeostasis) rests, but can also work (to gain power): giving rise to art, literature, science, music and the like.
The information processed through previously described functions is more or less abstract.
The brain learns by having genetic goals:
A child´s cortex gets sensory input and after having gotten sensory input during every waking hour for months or years, the child can be seen behaving in a way that demonstrates that it has understood certain streams of spatial and temporal sensory neuron activation sequences as objects; another way of saying this is that we see that the child has learnt to understand and relates to some aspects of the world as we adults do.
How is the child´s cortex calibrated; how does the brain learn as what to interpret temporal-spatial neuronal input so accurately? It cannot be genetically hard-wired every step of the way because if a stray free-radical or other damaging molecule changes any point in the entire neuronal path from the visual cell in the eye to the end point – and these changes would be in all of us – there´d be an anomaly (such as moving one pixel to another location) in what we see; and it has to involve the pruning (removing) of many synapses because this is what we see anatomically in babies.
The way I would engineer this, knowing that certain environmental objects have been the same since the beginning of life, would be to use the moon, trees, grass, rocks, water, other humans and other things that have looked the same forever as hard-wired genetic goals which the cortex strives to see. Since the moon certainly appears when darkness reigns and humans gather around the campfire, a baby would be triggered by the campfire and darkness to look for something upwards which only becomes accurate when the muscles in the eye have a very particular strain on them. By the baby keeping gazing at the not-so-in-focus moon, his eye muscles move until the moon is as in focus as it will be that night. This configuration of the eye-muscles is remembered as useful for looking at the most distant objects. Now, based on this configuration, and using other objects represented as goals in our hard-wired old brain, a child´s “fire-together wire together”-feature in the cortex has a certain temporal-spatial pattern in the cortex fire at the same time as a genetic pattern fires. For example, the brain figures that if the child is outdoors and the wind blows and its dark and humans are around a campfire and there´s something bright in the sky, the “moon”-sequence in the old brain fires – now the child knows the goal. As long as the moon is in front of the child´s eyes, a cortical input pattern fires and reaches the goal coming from the old brain. The neurons and the muscular configuration in the eye necessary to see the goal accurately is saved by fire-together-wire-together and all else is pruned away.
This is a method of having a number of old-brain goals which send sequences of firing neurons into the cortex as what it wants to see in order to reward the baby with dopamine (dopamine also strengthens neuronal connections in the cortex). Two locations fire simultaneously: the cortex and the old brain fires when the old brain thinks it sees a goal. Thus the cortex knows how what it sees should look like. From the moon we may learn how far away to focus our gaze; from a tree we may learn angles and lines and other things necessary to process 3-dimensional objects, and we can then use the things learnt from a tree on any object.
So now our baby has learned angles, distances etc from trees, sand, stones, the moon and other old objects.
Now the old brain activates a similar goal which involves multiple objects: attempt to move your muscles until a certain old-brain task is accomplished: for example the baby might now have the goal of picking up a thing and placing it in its mouth (a necessary thing for hunter-gatherers). Once the complex muscular pattern approaches the sequence saved genetically in the old brain, that part of the effort is strengthened by dopamine. Once the full muscular pattern of grasping an object and putting it in one´s mouth – once sensory experience first told of an object on the ground and then the sensors in the mouth telling of the object being in the mouth – the sequence in the motor cortex is saved as “how to grasp and object and put it in the mouth”. By learning many such sequences and combining parts from them, we gain full control of our muscles and can execute muscular patterns according to will; this explains why our old brain is larger than in other animals (we have more hard-wiring than other animals).
The same thing happens again:
the old brain has a goal like [getting food]. By memorizing feedback from the environment as a reaction to our input into it (by learning from out actions), we find ways we have previously [gotten food] and how we have seen others [get food]. We especially trust and thus learn from our parents because they have survived to reproduce and genetically can´t help but to want us (their child) to reproduce. So we look at them and imitate them. In doing this, the brain has a goal coming from the old brain and through imitation we can reach the goal. A more useful, flexible, adapting way to learn what one needs to do to reach the goal one strives for, is to have two brainhalves, two different molecules as neurotransmitters, and thus be able to proof-check imagined (non-real) scenarios and most importantly whether their outcome reaches the goal or not.
In a baby, a cortical pattern is seen to correspond to an old brain pattern because old genetically learned input from the senses (wind, darkness, campfire for example) had us activate the goal i.e. expect the moon.
In an adult, a cortical pattern is seen and known to be an imagined fictional scenario based on objects learned before, and if part of the imagined scenario corresponds (such as “me gets food”) to something the old brain can understand, causing us to remember the imagined scenario/cortical pattern and perform it just like we perform muscle movements one after the other in order to reach the goal.
We imagine random objects performing tasks as we´ve seen them do before, and if a sequence of events 1) is proof-checked by being imagined, and 2) leads to our goal, the old brain has successfully hijacked and used the cortex for its own purposes.
Thus so far, the same kind of old-brain-cortex interaction leads to: an infant learning angles, shapes from tree, moon, sand, grass…
a baby learning muscular movements and to use its body for movement at will…
a child learning what should be imaginable and what isn´t possible (the monkey jumped into the water vs. the water jumped into the monkey)…
a youth proof-checking imagined scenarios in order to reach goals – goals in this stage of development meaning: survival benefits (money?), reproductive benefits (whatever advertising tells us?) and power (career?).
Another booklet (the underpinnings of the existential theory)
History of Idea: The unthinkable thought
I think and I exist
Descartes was a philosopher in the 1600s, he was looking for certain truth (among the many different beliefs people had). He went about this by throwing all knowledge on the trash-heap of uncertain knowledge and whatever remained after all uncertain knowledge had been rejected must be certain knowledge.
What knowledge remained and hence was certain? Descartes realized that if he were to be fooled, being fooled requires someone who is being fooled i.e. there must be an I for that I to be fooled. There is a self because the demon cannot fool someone if there is not someone to fool. “I exist” Descartes hence said as certain knowledge.
What else escaped the trash-heap and is certain knowledge? If I was being fooled in everything that I can be fooled in – being fooled is thinking. Hence I know that thought exists because thought is the very phenomenon and a necessity of being fooled. Descartes could have said: “if the demon was making me incorrectly think that…”, hence thought exists.
Descartes – and anyone following his reasoning – can claim two facts to be certain truth: “I think” and “I exist”.
How do we move forward from the starting position that Descartes found for us? What immediately follows from the two facts?
We begin with Descartes’ two-fact starting position and notice the separation between the thinker and the thought. Reality lets us be able to claim both “I think” and “I exist”. There was not just one claim to be made; Descartes made two. This means separation between thinker and thought. Separation means distance i.e. space which means there can be different-sized objects. Hence size is variable. Hence we can take visions showing each size and stack them into a layered structure (the sizescale).
Descartes’ thoughts so easily lead to the sizescale; this is the sizescale’s philosophical foundation – the way to reach it by beginning with certain truth.
History
For a while in human history energy and mass were thought to be separate entities. The unification into energymass came in the 1900s. Major events in the unification were the discovery of radioactive rocks which emitted energy (while losing mass) and Einstein’s equation E=mc2.
Philosophy
Energy is verbs (movement etc.) and mass is nouns (things, stuff).
It is impossible to have energy (motion) without a mass (thing) and vice versa. A thing is required for there to be a thing moving, which justifies the word “energymass”. The word reminds us of that for example the human body can be described as being two distinct phenomena (energy & mass) or as a single phenomenon (energymass).
This philosophical proof proves that the word “energymass” is justified.
Empirical evidence
Where does the sun get the energy it radiates?
The sun shines because atoms are pushed together under immense pressure caused by gravity in the core of the star. At the moment when the atoms are pushed together mass is converted into energy. Mass turning into energy is a comprehensive theory and it’s the only theory for why the sun shines – everyone accepts it.
The sun turns mass into energy which justifies the word “energymass”.
Where do nuclear power reactors get the energy they generate?
Humans turn mass into energy in our technology. Nuclear power plants work because high-mass atoms are split and at that moment mass is turned into energy. This too is a reason for why the word “energymass” is supposed to be in our vocabulary.
Energy can be made into mass
The above two justifications for the word “energymass” show how mass is made into energy. The opposite can also be done: energy can be made into mass.
A proton is electromagnetically charged and hence reacts to electromagnetic pushes and pulls. Hence it can be accelerated using magnets as is done in particle accelerators. Protons can be made travel at 99.9999% of the speed of light and then head-on collide with protons travelling in the opposite direction. The electricity used to accelerate the protons to such speeds became movement-energy of the protons. When the collision occurs there is a lot of energymass in a small space during a short time hence creating little masses which would never have been discovered and studied if it weren’t for particle accelerators. These particles were present 13.7 billion years ago when the conditions created in the collision-zone of particle accelerators was present everywhere.
This justifies the word “energymass”.
Spacetime
In E=mc
2
c
2
is the speed of light squared. A speed is a distance over time i.e. c
2
involves spacetime.
We are used to seeing something when talking about it, but spacetime is emptiness, void, nothing, zero. There is empty space even though it is invisible.
Space – whether it is the volume occupied by a quark or the entire visible universe – is 3-dimensional meaning we have three directions: up-down, left-right and forward-backward. If we include time spacetime is 4-dimensional.
Philosophy
Mass occupies space hence space is necessary for there to be mass. Energy occurs through space during time hence spacetime is required for there to be energymass. Energymass involves spacetime.
Spacetime is nature’s nothing – it is the very minimum. Energymass requires spacetime.
This justifies the word “spacetime”.
Empirical evidence
Edwin Hubble noticed that the objects that emit light get redder the further away they are. If you make a graph the distance and velocity of a galaxy are proportional to its color (redder = further away and faster retreat speed). This means that very distant galaxies are moving away from us fast enough for their light to be red-shifted beyond the light spectrum visible to human eyes (toward the red).
Red-shift; light becoming redder i.e. longer wavelength/lower photon energy (we have both wave and particle descriptions for photons) depending on the velocity of a galaxy is the same kind of phenomenon as with sound waves: when a car is moving toward you each sound wave becomes shorter i.e. higher pitch. When a car is retreating from you each of its sound waves becomes elongated i.e. lower pitch – the faster the speed the lower the pitch. The driver of the car hears no pitch change i.e. light from a retreating distant galaxy is red-shifted when we catch it but for an observer in that galaxy his galaxy is without red-shift.
Supernovae emit approximately the same light no matter when or where they happen because the stars that undergo supernova are similar (“all Ferrari 599 GTOs have the same pitch at 100 km/h”).
Let’s say an event (such as a supernova) occurs in the galaxy far away and the event lasts one week for an observer in that galaxy. Because the galaxy is moving away from us each photon gets redder (its wavelength gets longer i.e. its energy gets lower) and as a result the stream of photons (the entire light-train containing all the light from the event) gets longer.
The whole light-train which shows the beginning of the event in the first photons to reach us and the end of the event as the last photons of the light-train gets longer. Because the light-train got longer the duration during which the event in the distant galaxy occurred got longer for us. If we begin measuring time when the light begins passing us and stop measuring when the light stops passing us (say we measure 1.5 weeks), our measurement will be different compared to the measurement of those in the galaxy in which the event occurred (they might measure 1 week depending on the galaxy’s retreat velocity).
By knowing the red-shift (i.e. the speed of retreat of the galaxy) we can calculate how long the event lasted for the inhabitants of the galaxy in which the event occurred. We can know their measurement and our measurement.
In everyday life the same phenomena happens but is tiny. Your friend is running away from you, he has a clock and for him one second lasts as long as it ought to last, but you watching his clock notice that his time (time for him) went slower.
The relationship between distance, velocity and red-shift to how long an event lasts intertwines time (how long events last) with space (distance/velocity) which justifies the word “spacetime”.
Summary
This chapter has been about cementing the words energymass and spacetime in our vocabulary. E=mc
2
involves both energymass and spacetime. Now we have the background knowledge for understanding E=mc2.
E=mc
2
E=mc
2
is true everywhere and always – it applies to every object of every size. It is a description describing reality. Consider it as fundamental an equation as “1 = 1”.
E=mc
2
is an equation – each symbol stands for a word (and each word has a meaning) and the equation consists of only five symbols – it should be understandable! There is nothing more to it than those five symbols.
E=mc
2
literally states that “energy” “equals” “mass” “times” “the speed of light” “squared”.
The math in E=mc2:
– “squared” means “multiplied by itself”. x
2
= x • x. 2 squared is 4. 2
2
= 4.
– when two symbols are next to each other a multiplication-symbol is assumed between them. 5 = xy means x • y = 5. mc
2
is m • c
2
.
– the equals (=) symbol can be understood when contemplating the true statement 1=1 .
E = energy (joules); lifting an apple on earth approximately one meter upwards requires one joule of energy.
m = mass (kilograms); because mass attracts mass (gravity).
c = speed of light (kilometers / hour).
The speed of light (abbreviated “c”) is 299 792 458 meters / second which is 186 282 miles / second which is 7.4 times around the earth in one second. Light always travels this speed through empty space – it takes light 8 minutes to reach from the sun to earth or vice versa. It takes light a little over 4 hours to reach from the sun to Neptune (the 8
th
planet). It takes light approximately 100 000 years to reach from one edge of a galaxy (along the diameter) to the other.
To visualize the speed of light you can draw a graph. The below graph shows speed (in km/h) on the y-axis and time on the x-axis. The graph shows that for a while a car was driving at 60 km/h, then for another while at 20 km/h, and then the car’s speed was 40 km/h… This is the same graph used to argue that size can be represented along a distance just as speed is in this graph.
Speed can be represented as a distance like in the above graph (short distance from the bottom = low speed). Hence the speed of light can be represented on a similar graph. The speed of light is a finite speed, hence the length of the distance representing the speed of light should be finite.
What is c
2
?
c
2
times mass equals energy, according to Einstein.
The gray area in the graph times mass equals energy.
I’ve found no other way to visualize c
2
. This method feels very unsatisfactory but that is how reality gives it to us. We must take it as a fact, remember it and think about it.
Nuclear power plants, the sun and particle accelerators convert mass into energy or vice versa. The measure of distance called feet can be converted into meters. 1 meter is 3.28 feet: mathematically this is written 3.28 • feet = meter. Conversion takes place in that equation. The number that one unit (feet) is multiplied by to get the other unit (meter) is called “conversion factor” – when converting feet to meters the conversion factor is 3.28. The conversion factor for converting between mass and energy is c
2
.
The confusion arises from c
2
(the speed of light squared) being the conversion factor instead of a simple number. My solution is E=mc
2
fundamentalism – if the equation says it is so then this is as close to the truth we will get.
Now I’ve used both a visual tool and a mathematical/linguistic tool for understanding E=mc2.
You might not feel like you understand E=mc2 but consider that the equation has five parts, all of which have been thoroughly explored thus far.
Consider this: why would I write a book about E=mc2 in the 21
st
century stating I’ve discovered something new if all possible knowledge derived from E=mc2 was blatantly obvious and already discovered?
When I started contemplating E=mc2 I was amazed at the fact that I knew everything necessary to understand the equation (the definitions of mass, energy, speed of light) and still I was not able to visualize any imagination. What did the lack of imaginations mean?
Energymasspacetime
The E=m-part (energy equals mass-part) of the equation involves energymass. Because a speed is a distance (which is space) over time, the c
2
-part (speed of light squared-part) involves spacetime. E=mc2 involves both energymass and spacetime. E=mc2 is energymass and spacetime in the same equation.
E=mc2 intertwines energymass with spacetime, giving rise to the word “energymasspacetime” as a synonym for reality. The word has its roots in the history of science and is the intertwining of the words “energymass” and “spacetime”.
Empirical evidence for that reality is one:
All senses describe a single reality, meaning if you see a tree with one eye you see it with the other eye too. If you can touch something you can see it, etc. This is the most fundamental of everyday experience and yet it tells us something profound: we are part of a reality that is
one
.
Summary
Here are some different ways the same idea can be said:
– E=mc2 is energymass and spacetime in the same equation. Reality is energymasspacetime.
– It is impossible to have movement without something moving (unifying energy and mass) and movement requires space and time (unifying energymass with spacetime).
– Reality is one if we trust our senses (all senses describe a single reality).
– Reality is linguistically one – you have never heard anyone say “realities” (plural).
– The history of science unified energy with mass and space with time in the 20
th
century. To continue the historical trend would be to unify energymass with spacetime.
The main discovery deduced from E=mc2 is the fact that reality is one i.e. energymass and spacetime are in the same equation. The next chapter will focus on how this knowledge can be used to prove that there is more to the sizescale than the knowable sizescale
Concept 1
The question is what the best name is to give a particular concept and the name I suggest is “the unthinkable; thought!”. The name contains a separating semicolon and an exclamation mark making the last word in the name a command.
This name is designed to let us refer, and all words do refer, but unlike other references/referrers this particular name refers to the unthinkable and then reminds us that the entire event was thought.
An example is that we do want to refer to something but what we are referring to is non-conceptual. We know that it cannot be imagined. Hence we might as well and do imagine/conceptualize anything – any imagination in this context is something ridiculous – and we must know that we might as well imagine anything and hence our imagination is as it should be. We can know that we are doing it right when any imagination is known to be wrong.
“The unthinkable; thought!” is the concept with which we should be careful to note that:
– any imagination associated with the concept is ridiculous,
– we are doing it right when we know that all imaginations in the context of this concept are interchangeable and none is better than the other.
This is the meaning of the word “the unthinkable” – we wish to refer to the non-conceptual. Thinking is visio-linguistic (visual and linguistic) and neither a vision nor word can be the unthinkable. Unthinkable can be broken down into its composite parts of unimaginable and “not a word”.
The word after the semicolon reinforces that in our thinking we can only deal with thoughts. We are commanded to know this truth by the exclamation mark.
Concept 2
The word or name – which is a conglomeration of pre-existing english words – “the unthinkable; thought!” gives the user of the word a way to invoke certain thoughts. This “the unthinakble; thought”-word has incommon with all other words. What also is common for almost every word is that it is associated with a picture. The word “nothing”, though, does not or should not invoke any pictures. “The unthinkable; thought!” is the combination of “unthinkable” which leads us toward some of the picturelessness as does “nothing”, and “thought” which too reaffirms that we are dealing with thought and nothing else.
Using the word “the unthinkable; thought!” we can refer to reality, which is reasoned to appropriately be the target of reference for the word “the unthinkable; thought!”. Why reality is “the unthinkable; thought!” is because observers (us) are separate and E=mc2 let us know that energymass, spacetime and laws of nature are intertwined (the opposite of separate).
Concept 3
Because the brain has evolved to be intrinsically anti-nothing i.e. wants to deal with non-nothing things, we tend to automatically map something onto the nothing that we want to think about; we tend to automatically find a target for our referencing instead of letting the slot be empty.
“Nothing” is a good word because it is a negation of things: “no thing”. Similarily, once realizing that intertwinedness and separation lets us not observe the ultimate intertwinedness (reality), we need a word which refers to reality but reminds us of not imagining it.
To be able to observe separate things, but not the intertwinedness (“the unthinkable; thought!”) leads to there being more to reality than can be observed. That of which all is part cannot be observed.
Concept
4
“The unthinkable; thought”, if we dissect the concept into its three component parts: “the”, “unthinkable” and “thought”, reveals certain attributes contained within the concept.
“The” and the lack of pluralism refers to the oneness of a reality which exists and thus warrants a concept referring to it.
“Unthinkable” refers to our inability to accurately have a concept, and more specifically a vision, of reality.
“Thought” is all mental activity; in fact the realm of thought can be defined as a category in which both thinker and thought reside. Thus all intellectual activity such as the concept “the
unthinkable; thought” is part of the realm of thought.
We should be reminded of this – of a concept not being that which it refers to i.e. a map of Sweden not being the landscape of Sweden itself – because we so easily slip back into forgetting it, probably because in our evolution there was no need for such intellectual distinctions.
Concept 5
What is part of “the unthinkable; thought!”? Every chair, table, coffeecup, person, house, grain of sand, etc – nouns are words referring to masses. Also walking, jumping, shining, ringing, etc – verbs are part of the unthinkable thought as energy. Energy and mass are intertwined, as seen in E=mc2, meaning it does not make sense to have verbs (jumping) without nouns (a jumper). These examples of energymass are the E=m-part of the equation describing reality.
The fact that the rest of the equation concerns only spacetime gives a reason for energymass to exist: it exists in nothing and under this condition is allowed.
There is no part of energymass which is not part of energymassspacetime. No energymass – no part of existence – is left out from the equation E=mc2. Neither is nothing left out because of the c2 part of E=mc2.
Under these criterion of inclusion, every observer too (because they constitute energymasspacetime) is part of THAT OF WHICH ALL IS PART. When you observe something you imagine this something in front of you; you separate from it. This makes it impossible to truly observe the observer: every time you put your object of observation in front of you there is a new unobserved observer which is you.
The very act of observation is separation; there cannot be observation without observer and observed. If this were not the case we´d use only the word “observing” (adjective) rather than a verb (“I observe”) and noun (“the observed”).
Though, because reality is one, it can reasonably be said “observing” in replacement of every time “I observe the observed” is used. This is remarkably much like the spiritual teaching of “there is no self”: even though we experience separation, in fact reality is one and thus separation is but a point of view; one perspective.
We must reconcile that separation (parts) happens in intertwinedness/energymassspacetime. The merger of these two concepts leads to “the unthinkable; thought!”. We need not choose whether separation (I think and I am) or intertwinedness (E=mc2) is true; both are true! The seeming contradiction is much like the reconciliation of energymass with spacetime; how can there be both one (energymass) and zero (spacetime) and furthermore they be part of the same reality? Do they not contradict one another? No – they require one another. As soon as there is empty space there must be energymass and as soon as there is energymass it requires space to be in. The two are frog-leaping over one another´s backs: when one is in front the other must follow.
How do we find “the unthinkable; thought!”-concept in science?
It arises from contemplating intertwinedness and separation.
Intertwinedness is the bonding principle; that which holds together. Reality is a single thing and its very definition is inclusive of all (even nothing must be part of reality). It is impossible for something to be excluded from reality because reality is all-inclusive. Reality intertwines all into one. Reality is a single reality.
Separation is the distinction principle; the very opposite of intertwinedness. Separation is to have one thing and another – two or more distinct phenomena. An example of separation is the distinction between thinker and thought.
It seems like separation should make intertwinedness invalid and vice versa because they are opposites. It sounds like we should be able to ask: “which do you support/believe in: separation or intertwinedness?”. But of course both are in our vocabulary and in our reality.
Think about this. How does this lead to “the unthinkable; thought!”? If separation is intrinsic to observers and observations, and if intertwinedness makes separation invalid, then intertwinedness cannot be observed.
How can intertwinedness be observed without separation? The two are opposites and if we are separate as observers (distinct by having the subject-object-separation) then we cannot be observers of intertwinedness.
If there is an observer i.e. a separate entity in intertwinedness – even a single observer – then there is no longer intertwinedness.
If there is no separation and hence no observer then intertwinedness is unobserved.
We are intrinsically observers; separate. Hence we ought to call intertwinedness “the unthinkable; thought!”.
To bring all of this together: reality is one, all is intertwined in it. We are observers by our very capacity of separating. Hence reality is “the unthinkable; thought!”.
From our observer´s perspective reality is “the unthinkable; thought!” and there must be separation.
Here is a metaphor which of course not helps in seeing “the unthinkable; thought!” as nothing does, but which reveals something about the nature of reality:
imagine the densest gray solid replacing every particle of mass and filling every void of space. This gray solid is everywhere and there is no way to orient yourself in this gray solid: you can´t distinguish up from down, nor one object from another. In fact, there are no objects but only the gray solid.
If the gray solid would include/intertwine you into itself you would no longer be an observer; no longer separate.
Think about this. Does it make sense for this gray solid to have a maximum and minimum size? I.e., if in this non-separated gray solid there is no separation, can one size be separate from another by it being the maximum or minimum and other sizes non-maximum and non-minimum?
If not, “the unthinkable; thought!” or intertwined reality has no maximum nor minimum size and the size continuum is infinite.
All that can be observed – any theoretical observation – is not it.
Say we define incrementally more of reality as “our observation”. All “observed” that can theoretically be reached has been made possible to be reached for observation. However impossible the method for knowing some facts, those facts are there for our contemplation and hence definable as our observation. No matter how much we define as our observation, “the unthinkable; thought!” must remain an unbroken rule. Hence, since “the unthinkable; thought!” equals that reality cannot be observed, and since we can define all knowable facts as our observation, there must be more to reality than all knowable facts.
E=mc
2
is often culturally hailed as the latest and greatest equation of science. It can be used for very accurate empirical predictions, but consider the most basic aspect of the equation: it mentions both energymass (E=m) and spacetime (c2).
The way energymass is mentioned is straight-forward: energy is mass (hence the word “energymass”). The way spacetime is mentioned is a little more subtle. c is the speed of light, and as a speed is a distance over time. Distance is space and time is time – spacetime. Thus c2 is spacetime.
A single equation unifying energymass and spacetime:
The core idea in this book, the foundation for all other ideas in this book, is the proof for that we need a concept like “the unthinkable; thought!”. The same proof then proves that there is more to the sizescale than can be observed.
The proof for that reality cannot be observed i.e. for that “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, is contained within this very sentence. “That of which all is part” is that which all observers (you) are part of, thus by being part of it being separate from it is negated and impossible. As Descartes argued: that there is a thinker can be known to be true and that there is thought can be known to be true, thus separation (and conveniently between observer and thought) is proven by Descartes. This separation is as much a certainty as the existence of that of which all is part, and thus the observability (unthinkability) of that of which all is part.
There are many paths to the same conclusion: E=mc2 and Descartes´ “I think and I am” is one path, the contemplation of intertwinedness and separation is another.
Another way is a thought experiment: imagine a square made of only four parts. The four parts represent all knowable parts (basically every quantum particle in the visible universe) and the entire square itself represents the sum of all parts. Seeing the square and the parts from the outside is easy when you are not one of the four parts, but if you were it would be impossible to have the outside view of the entire square. How could you built a representation out of the four parts which is the entire square, if you mind the observer (yourself)? Would any observation made up of any or all the parts be an observation of the entire square? No, thus that of which all is part (reality) cannot be observed, hence there is more to the sizescale than the knowable sizescale.
History of idea: sizescale
The sizescale
Everything has a size. Size is a continuum ranging between small and large. I will argue that in size there is infinitely large and infinitely small.
Descartes assigned numerical values to points in space and thus he invented the coordinate system. The sizescale-concept means representing size along a distance.
When all sizes that can be observed are represented along a distance the conclusion from doing this is that you as the observer are separate from all observers’ observations simultaneously i.e. the observer (you) is separate from the sizescale. The sizescale is a way of seeing every size simultaneously.
The sizescale is
the
concept for presenting all of science.
In the above picture the smallest known (quarks) is shown in the gray area at the very bottom of the picture whilst the largest known (the visible universe) is shown in the gray area at the very top of the picture. Notice how the largest known is shown using as much space as is used to show the smallest known.
The difference between the sizescale and the sizescale-concept
There is a difference between “the sizescale” and “the sizescale-concept”. The sizescale is the actual range in sizes – “the shape of nature” – which I will argue consists of infinitely small and infinitely large sizes. We will not know all there is to reality, hence we must differentiate between reality which comes as (an infinite) sizescale and our sizescale-concept which, because we will not know all there is to reality, must be finite and incomplete.
The sizescale-concept has the following four elements:
a layer,
the relationship between the layers,
time,
the observer of the sizescale.
1.                  The definition of a layer
In order to represent a change in size as a change along a distance there must be “layers”. Each layer of the sizescale represents a space of a certain size. Because space is infinite and we cannot see infinity we must have our imagination show layers as finite spaces whilst in language we define each layer as infinite 3-dimensional space.
A layer in the sizescale-concept can either be a 3-dimensional shape or a 2-dimensional shape. We can show seemingly 3-dimensional objects on 2-dimensional TV screens; by the same token a layer of the sizescale-concept can be shown as 2-dimensional like a TV-screen.
The shape of a layer is arbitrary: it could be a cuboid, a sphere or the shape of a cat as long as each of the three dimensions (width, breadth, height) are defined to be infinitely long.
The definition of a layer is “infinite 3-dimensional space”, but because we can’t see infinity we imagine layers of the sizescale-concept as finite spaces of arbitrary shape, each showing objects of a certain size.
2.                  The relationship between the layers
How does one layer connect/relate to the others?
The relationship is “justification”. When you ask: “why is a molecule allowed to exist i.e. what justifies a molecule?” the answer is: “the atom”. The smaller justifies the larger. The opposite must also be true: the smaller needs the large to exist in; without the larger the smaller could not be justified.
Size change and justification go hand in hand.
The relationship between the layers of the sizescale is “justification” and “change in size (size variability)”.
3.                  Time in the sizescale
On every known layer i.e. at every known size there is time.
There are two possible methods of presenting time in the sizescale-concept:
Time can be shown as we see it in everyday life; each layer in the sizescale is like a TV-screen playing a movie. As a galaxy rotates in one layer, a human does something in another and molecules vibrate in yet another.
Time can be shown like in a timeline. In Descartes’ coordinate system points in space represent moments in time.
4.                  The observer separate from every observers’ vision simultaneously
The observer (you) is one of the elements of the sizescale-concept. When you see the sizescale like in the above picture the observer is detached from the sizescale. There is space between the observer and the sizescale.
If the sizescale is counted as one “thing”, there are three “things” to notice in the sizescale-concept: the sizescale itself (the observed), the observer (you) and the spacetime between the observer and the sizescale. These three parts of the sizescale-concept are the “holy trinity” which is always present when the sizescale-concept is observed.
Does the observer watching the sizescale have a size? If every size is seen the observer must be of every size.
The above picture illustrates the three fundamental “parts” present in any observation of the sizescale-concept: the observer, the space between observer and object, and the object which is the sizescale-concept.
The standards
As the inventor of the sizescale-concept I had to choose a few standards for the concept. Like with any standard we simply agree along which direction to represent what.
When Descartes invented the coordinate system he had to decide on a standard regarding which direction shall be called “negative” and which “positive”. He chose right and up as positive (for example the coordinate (2,1) is two units to the right and one unit upward).
For example, what do we represent “upward” in the sizescale-concept? It can either be:
time (moments justify one another)
future or
past
or
size (sizes justify one another)
small or
large
I chose to assign upward the meaning of increase in size and downward decrease in size. The reason for deciding on this standard is because I wanted to make the standard as universal as possible. If I choose to represent time in the timeline manner; I assign left the meaning of past and right the meaning of future. This is based on the western way of reading and writing.
Things to do with the sizescale
There are the following mental processes which can be performed on the sizescale-concept:
movement in space,
rotating a layer or layers,
flow in the sizescale,
give the layers names.
Movement shows different spaces
Einstein’s theory of relativity taught us that it doesn’t matter what is moving: the observer or the observed. Either and both are moving depending on your frame of reference. The relative movement between an observer (whose vision is shown as a layer) and the space shown in a layer is considered movement. As there is relative motion between observer and object different objects appear in the field of view i.e. in the layer. A layer shows a space of a certain size and if the observer moves the space shown in the observer’s field of view is from a different location.
Consider this example: if you move one centimeter the picture at the top of the sizescale (perhaps showing a galaxy) does not change much – the change is a difference too small to detect by a human seeing an entire galaxy. You moved a distance of 0.00000000000…1 times the diameter of the galaxy. On the other hand if you watch the lower layers of the sizescale (for example showing human cells) and move the same distance (one centimeter) you will have moved to a different cell.
Movement applied to the entire sizescale (the movement of one centimeter applied to each layer) causes more apparent movement the further down the sizescale you look.
Movement is one of the tasks that can be done on the sizescale-concept.
Rotating the sizescale applies the same rotation to every layer
Let’s say you are looking at a galaxy from a particular direction. If you rotate the galaxy 180 degrees or if you move to the other side of the galaxy and rotate yourself 180 degrees, you see another side of the same galaxy. If you rotate the entire sizescale 180 degrees the above would happen in the layer showing the galaxy and the same change would be applied to every layer – for example you’d see a molecule from another direction. The same change in direction of view is applied to every layer if the sizescale is rotated.
Rotating the sizescale applies the same rotation to every layer.
Imagine replacing a skateboard with a sizescale – make it spin and rotate and watch the visions in each layer change.
“Flow” in the sizescale
I believe most people who learn about the objects of the different sizes automatically “flow” in the sizescale meaning they “slide” from one size to another. This can be accomplished by making the observer (you) smaller and larger i.e. asking “what would I see if I would shrink or be larger?”
Many people can express their knowledge of nature by telling you how many atoms there are in a cell, how large a cell is compared to an organ, how many people there are on earth, how far away earth is from the sun, compare this distance to the distance between stars, etc. By as small increments as possible you can “build your way up” from atoms to galaxies. The story can become quite long and you get into a mental state of “flow” which means facts flood out of your mouth. Hence I call such change in size “flowing” in the sizescale.
“Flowing” is a mental process you can do with the sizescale-concept.
Give the layers names
Language is about making communication easier. Let’s therefore give numerical names to the different layers.
We could call a quark layer 1 or 0, an atom layer 2, a protein layer 3, a cell layer 4, a human layer 5, the planet layer 6, the solar system layer 7, the galaxy layer 8, the large scale structure layer 9, the visible universe layer 10.
The sizescale is continuous and any convention of giving sizes numerical names is arbitrary.
Summary
The sizescale-concept is a straight forward, easy to grasp concept. Google Maps utilizes the concept in their software: you can move in space and change the size shown in the field of vision. The sizescale-concept had to be put on paper at some time in human history and as far as I know it hasn’t been done in the past, hence I decided now would be the time to put the sizescale-concept on paper.
Now I’ve given the full concept of the sizescale: the definition of a layer, the relationship between the layers, the ways to represent time. I’ve declared the necessary standards. I’ve given the toolkit for what can be done with the sizescale.
Everyday vision is in the present time-wise and in the middle of the sizescale size-wise (as small compared to the largest known as it is large compared to the smallest known).
The sizescale
What could be the unknowable aspect of reality? If it is an object within the known maximum and minimum limits of size, then we know that reality can hide something and tell us it is hidden. This basically means that the unknown object does not exert gravitational force, electromagnetic force nor any other interaction with any possible amplifier/sensor/observer. By knowing this about it, are we not contemplating the unknowable object and hence succeeded in somewhat knowing it?
With this defintion, that which can be contemplated is included in our observation and hence the unknown part must be infinite for there to be more to reality than our observation can grasp.
One thing that can be infinite – and is in fact infinite in pi (π) , calculus, fractals and many other mathematical concepts – is size. The size continuum, from now on called “the sizescale”, can be imagined as an abstract layered structure in which each layer is linguistically defined as infinite 3-dimensional space, and the relationship between the layers being “change in size” or “justification”.
Infinite justification
“The unthinkable; thought!” meant, through two proofs, that there is more to reality than can be observed. This something should be a size which we cannot contemplate.
Concept 6
Infinitely many sizes i.e. denying there being a maximum and minimum size not only is a conclusion reached from “the unthinkable; thought!”; but also means the relationship between the layers (justification) repeats endlessly. Justification is the cause-effect logical nature of reality and this being the relationship between the sizes, as it is between every two known sizes, is a possible justification/cause for why there is size. The answer to the question: “what justifies (size-wise) this size?” retreating endlessly into the ever smaller/larger is a way for size itself to be justified. Why is there size? The answer continues endlessly into ever other sizes. This is the unknown part of reality revealed as existent and unknown by “the unthinkable; thought!” and also a possible reason for why there is size itself.
The framework that science fits into
All fields of science such as quantum physics, chemistry, biology, anatomy, ecology, geology, astronomy and cosmology each study a particular size. The object of study in quantum physics is within a particular range of size and when the study crosses over to larger levels of size the connection between the scientific disciplines is revealed. The uniting factor between all empirical sciences is the study of size. By inquiring into what objects exist at every possible size there is science.
By representing change in size as change along distance, each subunit (layer) of the infinite sizescale is shown as a shape able to contain an object of a particular size. Thus by arranging objects into a system of layers all empirical scientific disciplines are shown clearly and simultaneously, revealing a more overarching pattern of nature.
The sizescale is a way to show science; it is the framework that science fits into. Every new discovery – be it of a new size (such as string theory) or of a new object within a known size (such as a new species of snail in the rainforest) – adds detail to the pre-existing framework of sizescale.
The sizescale
What we know about the sizescale is called “the known sizescale” and all that can be known about the sizescale is called “the knowable sizescale”. One of the pieces of knowledge – a conclusion reached from the premise “the unthinkable; thought!” – is that there is more to the sizescale than can be known. This applies to any observers, as does “the unthinkable; thought!”.
This, in combination with the pattern of the sizescale i.e. justification (the relationship between the layers), gives rise to the question of whether the sizescale is infinite or the only alternative: whether a finite part is strictly “hidden”. It seems absurd for reality to hide a finite part of itself, hence it seems like the sizescale is infinite (and thus reaches its state of being well described by “the unthinkable; thought!” by being infinite).
Concept
7
Other than the question of whether reality is infinite or hid a finite piece of itself to satisfy the condition of “the unthinkable; thought!”, the relationship between the layers (justification) seems to point toward the same kind of mechanism for existence as how E=mc
2
summoned energymass: infinite justification (the first cause in size goes on retreating into infinity).
You can have a feel for biology. But is not biology as a concept on the very top of the hierarchy of abstraction, the very summary and conclusion of many subtopics within the field of biology? Likewise the sizescale is at the very top of a hierarchy of abstraction and its subtopics are all fields of science.
Perhaps a general understanding of all fields of science is required to get a feel for the sizescale itself. Once that is accomplished and it is known that the known sizescale is but a subtopic of an infinite sizescale, the known sizescale can be used to get a feel for the entire sizescale. Like biology or any other field of science has the same feel as all other fields of science, and like the relationship between biology and cosmology has the same feel as the relationship between quantum physics and biology, the known sizescale has the feel of the entire sizescale.
It is quite emotionally awesome to know the sizescale is infinite. What in many a soul inspire awe is the grandness of the cosmos: hell, even a galaxy is too large not to be awe-inspiring. Now, if there is the infinitely large and not only is it not a repetition of the largest known infinitely many times: it is as different from the known as the fields of science are different from one another. Also, our layer/size cannot possibly be the only one having reproduction and as a result consciousness, given infinitely many layers.
Big bang cosmology
There need be no justification for why nothing can be. It is a literal custom to say “there was nothing” but the sentence contains a contradiction: “was” implies existence and nothing is the opposite of existence. Nothing is synonymous with non-existence. There need be no justification for why non-existence non-exists.
Laws of nature – avoiders of absurdity – such as “1 = 1” and other rules of mathematics, physics and geometry that are true independent of anything other than avoiding absurdity must be true in nothing/non-existence. Certain things must be true even about nothing/non-existence and these are laws of nature.
One law of nature is E=mc
2
, which is true at every size i.e. applies to every field of empirical science. It basically amounts to saying that energymass and spacetime are intertwined (into a single reality). Think about this: do you believe E=mc2 is a law of nature which is true regardless of anything else i.e. is true about nothing/non-existence? I do, and thus energymass is “mentioned” in non-existence which, again, does not need justification because it is an empty framework with its laws of nature.
If energymass is mentioned in nothingness but not summoned, reality has basically made small talk or empty chatter – it “talks about” energymass without there being any substance to it. If this sounds impossible, the only resolution is for energymass to be summoned (i.e. made into existence).
As soon as there is nothing/non-existence (which does not need justification) there are laws of nature (such as E=mc2) and energymass is mentioned, and as soon as energymass is mentioned energymass is summoned.
Hence the universe can only go an infinitely short amount of time (or no time) before nothingness summons energymass. Should then energymass be summoned somewhere first? It should be summoned in the infinitely small spaces because E=mc2 is mentioned in the infinitely small spaces. This means that energymass or the big bang starts infinitely dense, and because the laws of nature within our known sizescale (I´m mainly thinking about quantum physics) pushes dense things apart, the big bang starts as hot and dense, and then expands becoming less dense.
Infinitely dense energymass is summoned in infinite spacetime and splits apart as hot things are shown to do in empirical experiments.
The mechanism for re-creating the big bang is for the universe to become less dense until the density is zero i.e. the universe is empty. The universe accomplishes this by accelerating cosmic expansion and black holes.
If a density graph is drawn for the entire visible universe, it´s density begins as high and drops lower and lower. See fig. 2. If the density can reach zero i.e. if our three dimensions of space no longer contain any energymass, then what is the purpose of the law of nature “E=mc
2
” which must be true even in empty space.
It is hard to imagine that the surrounding objects – tables, people and chairs – would some day not be here. But if “here” is defined as spacetime – three dimensional space – then a black hole which curves space infinitely much can give the objects it swallows the status of not being availble to our three dimensions. A table is a two-dimensional surface and if something falls off from the table – falls vertically i.e. in the third dimension – then it is no longer considered to be on the table. If something falls into a black hole it is no longer in our three dimensions and thus no longer can be considered to exist in spacetime. So when all things have fallen into black holes there is in effect empty spacetime; the density of the visible universe has become zero.
As soon as there is zero density i.e. perfect emptiness – and mind you E=mc
2
still remains true in it – energymass can be and is summoned. It begins as infinitely dense because it is summoned in the smallest spaces simultaneously – every nook and cranny of infinite emptiness is filled all at once. Hot things split apart and this is what we see as comic expansion in the large scale structure of the universe. Because the layer of the sizescale in which accelerating cosmic expansion happens is so large and thus so unfamiliar compared to our everyday sizes to deal with, one phenomenon which becomes apparent is acceleration of the expansion. This acceleration need not be because of energy (the so called “dark energy”) but is more accurately described as the nature of sizes so remote in the sizescale that we cannot expect our common sense calibrated to the human-size to be applied to the very largest known.
You can imagine dividing space into tiny boxes – the tiniest cubes known to man. Some cubes will contain mass and others will not, some will be part of a larger shape making up a carbon atom and others will be part of a hydrogen atom. 13.7 billion years ago every box  had mass in it. Infinite space was maximally filled with energymass and then energymass split apart in infinite space. This is difficult to imagine for many reasons, such as: we cannot see infinity, and we cannot see older light than the oldest light (and hence the visible universes border is our limit of knowledge).
The large scale structure of the universe quite looks like what you would expect from mass, packed very dense long time ago, splitting apart in infinite nothingness.
Why did, in nothing (empty space), mass and energy fill every smallest nook and cranny of all available space? Laws of nature such as energy cannot be created nor destroyed (the conservation of energy) can only apply if there is energymass in the first place, and cannot be applied to perfectly empty space. Thus, creation as the big bang seems to violate the law of conservation of energy but in perfectly empty nothingness it does not matter if this law is violated as long as the creation happens in and is intrinsically tied to and does not overreach the extent to which it exists. Spacetime is intrinsically part of energymass i.e. energymass does not exist independent of spacetime (as seen in E=mc
2
), hence spacetime can summon energymass as long as the nature of energymass is such that it makes sense for it to exist, and for such syndical existence spacetime need be tied to energymass.
Another way of saying it is existence in non-existence; one in zero. The two are one and the tieing together is witnessed in E=mc
2
.
Another requirement, other than the limits of existence being tied to and set by spacetime, is that the summoning must happen equally everywhere. Thus, because the sizescale reaches to infinitely small size, the space between two arbitrarily chosen points is infinitely small (this is the concept of the derivative). In the infinitely small space E=mc
2
is “first” true and there energymass is first summoned – both because energymass must be summoned as soon as there is nothing, because Einsteinian theory of relativity claims every point in space to be equal to every other (there is no center of the universe), and because if energymass is infinitely small – if there had been empty space between two energymasses – this space can be considered infinitely large from the point of view of the infinitely small.
What is needed for there to be humans? Two phenomena are provided for by an infinite sizescale: the infinitely large and the infinitely small. Everyone agrees that in order to explain a human being one ought to explain the organs, and then the cells that the organs are part of, and further down the sizescale we go. Similarly a human cannot exist without a planet to be on, and a planet cannot exist without a solar system, and further up the sizescale we go. The infinite sizescale is one of the aspects needed for explaining humans.
Another aspect is energymass or existence itself. Why something rather than nothing? Because nothing – which does not prompt the question: “why does nothing exist?” (Because it doesn´t “exist”) has the laws of nature which include E=mc
2
; because in nothing existence is allowed. If existence existed in something other than nothing that would be absurd; impossible. Existence exists as an infinite sizescale of one in zero (energymass in spacetime).
These two aspect – “one in zero” and an infinite sizescale – are what is needed to explain humans and indeed the known sizescale. All additional detail to this framework is just that: detail. Why the, seemingly finely tuned to support human life, detail that we find in our known sizescale? Because in parts of the sizescale that don´t allow life the detail is not observed/ found because there is no observer within those sizes.
Because the sizescale is infinite toward the large, our layer is indeed infinitely large. Though the visible universe has its limits due to the finite speed of light, the entire universe – because the entire sizescale is infinite – is infinite. Hence there are infinitely many planets with intelligent life, just like earth – infinitely many within our layer i.e. all of these planets are approximately earth-sized. Remind you: each layer is defined as infinite 3-dimensional space.
Such a conscious layer containing infinitely much life, can be considered just a single layer i.e. a small range of size in which conscious life can exist. The sizescale being infinite there must be infinitely many conscious layers each being infinite 3-dimensional space and sustaining infinitely many consciousnesses.
Interestingly, if each conscious layer (only one of which (the human size) is known to us) is marked in an infinite sizescale, the visualization of this is like if you would mark every thousandth number on an infinite numberline. Showing more and more numbers out of infinity, the shown markings increase (see fig. 3). The infinite sizescale is full of life-sustaining sizes.
How religion arose
Imagine a timeline where the above described animal lives in a caveman way. For a long time they have been saying things like “you attack there…”, “I am hungry”, “my sister needs your food, so I am going to take it from you because I am high status and you are a slave”. Maybe the most used word was “I” (the organism speaking).
Now imagine one of a number of possible scenarios:
A caveman spontaneously (out of boredom) decides to see what happens if he focuses on and examines the word I.
A bullied caveman is bullied into the seemingly meaningless task of focusing and thoroughly examining different words. After having gone through a number of words, he lands on the word “I”.
A group discussion gets silly and everyone is repeating the word I, causing one or some of the cavemen to focus on the word.
Imagine the brain of the caveman focusing on the word I. The cortex calls itself the self, and when asked to focus on itself, the cortex creates a little loop anatomically. The experience would be of not being able to put the self in front of (or in any other direction for that matter) oneself; usually when thinking we imagine things in front of ourselves, but the observer can never be put there. Out of all this emerges a self-definition based in the newly created cortical circuit, with a distinction between anything observable and the unseen observer.
Soon the old brain would claim selfhood in one of its inputs to the cortex. This claim to selfhood comes into conflict with the fact that no such thought urged from the old brain is the unseen observer. Thus there is a purely cortical (not encouraged by the old brain) circuit with a claim to selfhood.
This realization is so important because it gives freedom from thought (thoughts become less important and the organism finds peace of mind in focusing on the purely cortical circuit and its claim to selfhood).
Then the same circuit appears in other people in the group because language allows one to communicate what to do to create such a circuit.
Now we have one half of the essence of religion (the “soul”). The other half of religion arose in much the same way, by focusing on the most overarching all-encompassing word (reality) or separation vs intertwinedness.
In the history of science, Einstein´s equation E=mc
2
also is a synonym for reality. It is the word “energymasspacetime” – energymass and spacetime in the same equation.
Concept 2
What remains for us “strugglers” (the old kind of humans) is to pray to subdue our negative old brain urges, such as always planning how to get more power (in the hierarchy), how to get more resources (material wealth), or learning survival and reproductive conducive behaviors from our past experience (going through memories), or trying to predict the future. My prediction for the future is that there will be two races of people agreeing on the universal science (sizescale, the unthinkable thought, etc). I think it will be so obvious that we rather have the new race (the good, happy people) inhabit the earth, because strugglers (us) are less happy than the perfect engineered old brain.
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
19900112-4917
Sweden
0769284838
Book (10k words)
I went to a coffeeshop every day during one week and each day I wrote something on each of the following topics (here are the topics and subtopics I will be discussing in the next 10 000 words):
The unthinkable; thought!
Separation
Intertwinedness (E=mc
2
)
Unobservability of reality.
– does it make sense for such a gray mass to have a maximum & minimum size?
– If we shall know “any theoretical observation – all that can be observed – is not it” then is there more?
The sizescale
Infinite justification
The framework which science fits into (E=mc
2
)
Big bang cosmology (E=mc
2
)
The conscious size (infinitely many)
Dark energy, dark matter
———————————————————–
****************
——1.1—–
The question is what the best name is to give a particular concept and the name I suggest is “the unthinkable; thought!”. The name contains a separating semicolon and an exclamation mark making the last word in the name a command.
This name is designed to let us refer, and all words do refer, but unlike other references/referrers this particular name refers to the unthinkable and then reminds us that the entire event was thought.
An example is that we do want to refer to something but what we are referring to is non-conceptual. We know that it cannot be imagined. Hence we might as well and do imagine/conceptualize anything – any imagination in this context is something ridiculous – and we must know that we might as well imagine anything and hence our imagination is as it should be. We can know that we are doing it right when any imagination is known to be wrong.
“The unthinkable; thought!” is the concept with which we should be careful to note that:
– any imagination associated with the concept is ridiculous,
– we are doing it right when we know that all imaginations in the context of this concept are interchangeable and none is better than the other.
This is the meaning of the word “the unthinkable” – we wish to refer to the non-conceptual. Thinking is visuo-linguistic (visual and linguistic) and neither a vision nor word can be the unthinkable. Unthinkable can be broken down into its composite parts of unimaginable and “not a word”.
The word after the semicolon reinforces that in our thinking we can only deal with thoughts. We are commanded to know this truth by the exclamation mark.
——-/1.1
——-1.2
The word or name – which is a conglomeration of pre-existing english words – “the unthinkable; thought!” gives the user of the word a way to invoke certain thoughts. This “the unthinkable; thought”-word has incommon with all other words. What also is common for almost every word is that it is associated with a picture. The word “nothing”, though, does not or should not invoke any pictures. “The unthinkable; thought!” is the combination of “unthinkable” which leads us toward some of the picturelessness as does “nothing”, and “thought” which too reaffirms that we are dealing with thought and nothing else.
Using the word “the unthinkable; thought!” we can refer to reality, which is reasoned to appropriately be the target of reference for the word “the unthinkable; thought!”. Why reality is “the unthinkable; thought!” is because observers (us) are separate and E=mc
2
let us know that energymass, spacetime and laws of nature are intertwined (the opposite of separate).
——-/1.2
——-1.3—–
Because the brain has evolved to be intrinsically anti-nothing i.e. wants to deal with non-nothing things, we tend to automatically map some thing onto the nothing that we want to think about; we tend to automatically find a target for our referencing instead of letting the slot be empty.
“Nothing” is a good word because it is a negation of things: “no thing”. Similarly, once realizing that intertwinedness and separation lets us not observe the ultimate intertwinedness (reality), we need a word which refers to reality but reminds us of not imagining it.
To be able to observe separate things, but not the intertwinedness (“the unthinkable; thought!”) leads to there being more to reality than can be observed. That of which all is part cannot be observed.
——-/1.3——
——–1.4——
“The unthinkable; thought”, if we dissect the concept into its three component parts: “the”, “unthinkable” and “thought”, reveals certain attributes contained within the concept.
“The” and the lack of pluralism refers to the oneness of a reality which exists and thus warrants a concept referring to it.
“Unthinkable” refers to our inability to accurately have a concept, and more specifically a vision, of reality.
“Thought” is all mental activity; in fact the realm of thought can be defined as a category in which both thinker and thought reside. Thus all intellectual activity such as the concept “the unthinkable; thought” is part of the realm of thought.
We should be reminded of this – of a concept not being that which it refers to i.e. a map of Sweden not being the landscape of Sweden itself – because we so easily slip back into forgetting it, probably because in our evolution there was no need for such intellectual distinctions.
——-/1.4——-
——–1.5—-
What is part of “the unthinkable; thought!”? Every chair, table, coffeecup, person, house, grain of sand, etc. – nouns are words referring to masses. Also walking, jumping, shining, ringing, etc – verbs are part of the unthinkable thought as energy. Energy and mass are intertwined, as seen in E=mc2, meaning it does not make sense to have verbs (jumping) without nouns (a jumper). These examples of energymass are the E=m-part of the equation describing reality.
The fact that the rest of the equation concerns only spacetime gives a reason for energymass to exist: it exists in nothing and under this condition is allowed.
There is no part of energymass which is not part of energymassspacetime. No energymass – no part of existence – is left out from the equation E=mc
2
. Neither is nothing left out because of the c
2
part of E=mc
2
.
Under these criterion of inclusion, every observer too (because they constitute energymasspacetime) is part of THAT OF WHICH ALL IS PART. When you observe something you imagine this something in front of you; you separate from it. This makes it impossible to truly observe the observer: every time you put your object of observation in front of you there is a new unobserved observer which is you.
The very act of observation is separation; there cannot be observation without observer and observed. If this were not the case we´d use only the word “observing” (adjective) rather than a verb (“I observe”) and noun (“the observed”).
Though, because reality is one, it can reasonably be said “observing” in replacement of every time “I observe the observed” is used. This is remarkably much like the spiritual teaching of “there is no self”: even though we experience separation, in fact reality is one and thus separation is but a point of view; one perspective.
We must reconcile that separation (parts) happens in intertwinedness/energymassspacetime. The merger of these two concepts leads to “the unthinkable; thought!”. We need not choose whether separation (I think and I am) or intertwinedness (E=mc
2
) is true; both are true! The seeming contradiction is much like the reconciliation of energymass with spacetime; how can there be both one (energymass) and zero (spacetime) and furthermore they be part of the same reality? Do they not contradict one another? No – they require one another. As soon as there is empty space there must be energymass and as soon as there is energymass it requires space to be in. The two are frog-leaping over one another´s backs: when one is in front the other must follow.
———/1.5—–
——–2.1
How do we find “the unthinkable; thought!”-concept in science?
It arises from contemplating intertwinedness and separation.
Intertwinedness is the bonding principle; that which holds together. Reality is a single thing and its very definition is inclusive of all (even nothing must be part of reality). It is impossible for something to be excluded from reality because reality is all-inclusive. Reality intertwines all into one. Reality is a single reality.
Separation is the distinction principle; the very opposite of intertwinedness. Separation is to have one thing and another – two or more distinct phenomena. An example of separation is the distinction between thinker and thought.
It seems like separation should make intertwinedness invalid and vice versa because they are opposites. It sounds like we should be able to ask: “which do you support/believe in: separation or intertwinedness?”. But of course both are in our vocabulary and in our reality.
Think about this. How does this lead to “the unthinkable; thought!”? If separation is intrinsic to observers and observations, and if intertwinedness makes separation invalid, then intertwinedness cannot be observed.
How can intertwinedness be observed without separation? The two are opposites and if we are separate as observers (distinct by having the subject-object-separation) then we cannot be observers of intertwinedness.
If there is an observer i.e. a separate entity in intertwinedness – even a single observer – then there is no longer intertwinedness.
If there is no separation and hence no observer then intertwinedness is unobserved.
We are intrinsically observers; separate. Hence we ought to call intertwinedness “the unthinkable; thought!”.
To bring all of this together: reality is one, all is intertwined in it. We are observers by our very capacity of separating. Hence reality is “the unthinkable; thought!”.
From our observer´s perspective reality is “the unthinkable; thought!” and there must be separation.
Here is a metaphor which of course not helps in seeing “the unthinkable; thought!” as nothing does, but which reveals something about the nature of reality:
imagine the densest gray solid replacing every particle of mass and filling every void of space. This gray solid is everywhere and there is no way to orient yourself in this gray solid: you can´t distinguish up from down, nor one object from another. In fact, there are no objects but only the gray solid.
If the gray solid would include/intertwine you into itself you would no longer be an observer; no longer separate.
Think about this. Does it make sense for this gray solid to have a maximum and minimum size? I.e., if in this non-separated gray solid there is no separation, can one size be separate from another by it being the maximum or minimum and other sizes non-maximum and non-minimum?
If not, “the unthinkable; thought!” or intertwined reality has no maximum nor minimum size and the size continuum is infinite.
All that can be observed – any theoretical observation – is not it.
Say we define incrementally more of reality as “our observation”. All “observed” that can theoretically be reached has been made possible to be reached for observation. However impossible the method for knowing some facts, those facts are there for our contemplation and hence definable as our observation. No matter how much we define as our observation, “the unthinkable; thought!” must remain an unbroken rule. Hence, since “the unthinkable; thought!” equals that reality cannot be observed, and since we can define all knowable facts as our observation, there must be more to reality than all knowable facts.
——-/2.1
——-2.2—–
E=mc2 is often culturally hailed as the latest and greatest equation of science. It can be used for very accurate empirical predictions, but consider the most basic aspect of the equation: it mentions both energymass (E=m) and spacetime (c
2
).
