Plato: do you think that a person who is a fresh slate and given the two options – modern truth or bronze-age religion – and fully understood both options, would rather take the religious choice because it requires no thinking for yourself (instead it offers very clear rituals and dictates), contains mysteries (like a talking God who gives revelations such as “don´t eat pork”) instead of logic with logic´s inevitable pitfalls for the mind (such as that it´s hard to comprehend an infinite size-range being just one pillar out of three in an existential theory that deals with Big Bang and evolution)? Also, religions offer unfounded carrots at the end of the road: you get to heaven after you die.
Socrates: I think it´s hard to choose the untruth once you know the truth. But while your mind is firmly planted in untruth it´s certainly as comfortable as a con-man´s gentle voice. Truth and rationality demand you pause and verify based on your own logic; mystery can be as easily held onto as it is comforting that, say, one is being taken care of by a God which is not an infinite uncaring sizerange, but instead somekind of willing mind that interferes with his Creation through mysteries (which beg you do not even try to understand them, unlike logic which takes effort to comprehend). The battle between the paradigm-shifting three-pillared existential theory and the bronze-age religions reveal the grandest of all pitfalls for the mind: we are, due to having lived so for millions of years, inclined toward: getting a clear list of orders and rules to obey to get a mysterious pleasant gift at the end of the road; being told that the rationale through which Creation spawns is a mystery, yet satisfying one´s thirst for an answer that can bind the group together by having “…in 6 days.” as a to-be-remembered part of the creation story / existential theory. That covers rituals and dogmas. We´ve had language for hunderds of thousands of years and science for a few hundred years – most talk ever produced ordered people around (rituals) and gave a Grand Context which could unite a group and give an “us vs. them”-attitude (dogmas). Science and logic has lead to a world-view which lacks rituals, causes as much group-cohesion and “us vs. them”-mentality as knowing math, contains ideas and rationales which are pitfalls for the mind – tasks we are barely fit to accomplish, and we accomplish them uncomfortably (we´d prefer a mystery where we can be lazy and not even try to understand it). 99.9999999% of planets have this ritual-lacking pitfall-full logically exhausing non-mysterious “think for yourself” dogma-free Grand Context for their lives because the history of a planet is so very long – we are only halfway through our earth´s history. But we better hurry up in spreading the truth based on logic because religion causes large-scale grouping (“us vs. them”-mentalities in vast groups of people) which causes wars against other groups. These wars, with exceptions for Afghanistan, Syria, Iraq and Libya are rare now because of uninterrupted economic growth, but when an economic decline, global warming or peak oil makes people feel hopeless and futureless, they´ll use their holy book-based group-bond to cause trouble – and trouble is bigger when the group is big; religion has always been a tool for making the group as big as possible. When group-binding over holy books is gone, it´s safer to have an economic decline because humans won´t have a group-mentality build in as enormous a flocks of people as religion has group-mentality build in today. The only way to get rid of large-scale uniform groups i.e. religions is to appeal to people´s reasoning. Starting from certain truth, etc…
Plato: So until we get the rational intellectual tradition to take over in the world, we´ll propably have a slow simmer of smaller wars where group-bonding is based on different interpretations of holy books – even though the current refugee crysis from Syria/Iraq is the biggest flow of refugees in a century, it´s still small potatoes compared to what´s coming if global warming, peak oil or an economic crysis hits: then we´ll regret that we didn´t do everything in our power to prevent large-scale group-bonding because a large war is worse than a small war. Once cities start drowing because of sea-level rise, or oil prices rise due to us having burned all of it, people will be desperate to survive and we´ll see them bind together based on some principle / anything incommon – and I´m sure it will be religion.
Plato: What would the case be if everyone dropped religion and instead took everything they needed from the logical existential theory?
Socrates: Well, the italians wouldn´t fight the french. Nationhood is no longer a legitimate-enough binder. Family-ties, acuaintances and friends… It´ll be wars between two tiny neighbouring villages, but multiplied all-over the world.
Author
yonis
Posted on
15/03/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Plato and Socrates, God and Darwin
Am I a muslim?
Am I a muslim?
I have my size-time-diagram into which everything fits and this diagram being infinite gives an existential theory because:
– sizes justify (are the cause of) one another, so there´s infinite justification.
– time is infinite and our universe is observed to become nothingness in the future, and nothingness would be absurd if not for the fact that in the smallest spaces energymass is summoned because E=mc2 is a stable, constant law of nature.
– there can only be separate distinct entities if distinction is counter-balanced and happens in non-distinction (a singular Reality). This point is much like the previous point of that only in nothingness can somethingness be summoned.
God, then, if we are to look for a meaning for the word, cannot be:
– a specific object, size nor time within something infinitely larger
– cannot, by definition, be apart from and “beyond” [that of which all is part] (Reality). Reality being an infinite size- and time-range of energymasspacetime is enough of an existential theory to explain us being here, the Big Bang, and the rest of the questions. God would, if claimed to be “beyond” the existential theory, be an unnecessary unproven assumption but more to the point: God would be “unreal” if Reality is defined as we define it here. Such “beyond Reality”-gods are unreal. What´s more is that the phrase “Allah akbar” (God is the biggest/greatest) wouldn´t be true if Reality/[that of which all is part] is God plus Reality – if [that of which all is part] has two major components, God and an energymasspacetime sizerange etc (the existential theory), then the sum of those two components is greater than God.
God, thus, obviously means Reallity by the definition of God being the greatest. God is then infinite. It makes sense to see people in awe over how much they can study, when they know there´s infinitely many fields of science which we do not have access to but which are logical and necessities for Reality to hold together. There being nothing absurd in an infinite size-range that resembles our known size-range (from quantum physics to the visible universe) is awesome and the highest you could possibly worship. This again proves that God is just a synonym for Reality/the existential theory.
Having studied all fields of science i.e. all sizes is the known sizerange, seeing how they all make up (justify) eachother (that it´s just zooming in and zooming out), the wisdom that the sizerange is infinite (that there are infinitely many sizes making up one another) from the distinction (I think & I am logical path) and anti-distinction (that Reality is one) -thing, is the reason why we exist and God is not some size (sizes are not minds, except through evolution). Having studied all known sizes and knowing that the sizerange is infinite: it is an explanation to why we´re here (akin to the Adam and Eve story or “God created earth in 6 days” story) but it is not a revalation-giving thing – the Quran wasn´t written by God because God is not the kind of thing that writes/dictates stories. God being an infinite sizerange as thus our Creator is true, but the true way to get knowledge, rituals/pictoral representations and even guidance is through my work, not the work of the holy book-writers. The holy book writers might have said something true about God (just like I do in my work) – but that is true of science textbooks moreso – and they all said false things such as that God talks/gives revalations/authors holy books.
I can see the bronze-age marketing-team´s standpoint: people are more prone to follow dictates if they´re said to come from something/someone “higher than human” i.e. a God or a ghost/spirit. Being invisible in as nonsense-a-way as some rituals are, is great for marketing. Everyone knows how humans thing – they´re themselves human; we are only partly rational (a computer is rational) in what we think – all our animal lusts bias or interrupt the thoughts that are as logical as they get, but they´re always going to be based against an evolutionary background just like the pitfall that my abstract diagram-including infinity-mentioning world-view is more like algebra than “what a world-view (context in which we are) should be thinking about that we lived for millions of years on the savannah, only needing to know (in one´s world-view) where the water-source is or whom stands under whom in the social hierarchy. We´ve mapped geographies, the use-based properties of objects/tools and personalities (and still do) for a gazillion years – only with the advent of science SOME of us achieved higher i.e. used their evolved meager toolkit with all its biases to scetch out something like the theory of evolution in the 1800s. Looking at the evolution of [what we use our memory for]/how we map our surroundings/our world-view, before we mapped social relationships we mapped geographies. Before we mapped the functions of inventions (tools) our map only contained caveman tools (sharp stones and spears). The next step is to map one´s context as an infinite size-time-diagram (where size and time are really the same, but abstract thinking allows us to separate them into two distinct axises) or energymasspacetime (with its´ many laws of nature found in every school textbook in the world) and the distinction-antidistinction-
thing which feels so awkward/abstract that one wonders why one needs it as pillar 3 of the existential theory: the answer is: it wasn´t invented (the words “I see a distinct object” or “why is there distinction?” weren´t said in the same breath as “Reality is one” or “energymass and spacetime unite”) until I did it in the 21st century). It might seem trivial to mention that separate entities exist in a singular Reality – it´s so obvious (that´s why no-one cared to make a big fuzz out of inventing it) but it makes the existential theory have three pillars (all of which can seem obvious) and not 4 – there´s nothing more to add to the existential theory once you´ve added the obvious “separation in antidistinction”-statement. I want to know how aliens (the infinitely many of them, steered by science toward an incommon path) think because its synonymous to finding a TRUE “key to history” (Marx thought the key was equality, Hitler thought the key was racial superiority and a brutally competative relationship between races, Capitalism thinks it´s freedom (less government), some might think they “key to history” is to fund technological development). “How aliens think” is a shorthand way of saying “the key to history” or “what will happen next/eventually and in hindsight seen as akin to the era of ancient grecoroman culture, the Industrial Revolution or the Digital revolution)”. It´s what we´re steered towards; it´s the closest thing we get to divine guidance. It´s simply universal (drawn on science and practiced by infinitely many aliens) guidance/suggestions/
recommendations that we, as a species, can choose to promogate and thus “follow” or if we´ll stick to multiculturalism´s many -ism´s like political quran-based islamism or christian-based “the holy book gave me this”-morality and codes of conduct. Some -ism´s are dangerous (like quran-based politics and law) while some -ism´s like christianity give too much credit to the -ism for simple human decency (in an age of extreme wealth globally). When my tummy is full I´m a decent person – I try to make money but I´m not desparate after extreme wealth because I know that my caveman-brain´s “need” for power (through status-symbols and freedom of space my environment to maximize the effectiveness of my hobby (writing)) won´t get satisfied no matter what external extravaganzas trigger my eyeballs, nor can people (socializing) make me much more satisfied than I am right now because all that is interesting and that there is to people is their brain – and after a few weeks together there´ll be nothing I know nor any mental tool that I use that won´t, despite copyright, be in the hands of my friend: we won´t talk science (me teaching him/her) after all the science has been taught. I don´t care to teach trivia so when I say “I teach SCIENCE” I mean a finite thing: the existential theory plus something from each level of the known sizerange. Getting a P.hD from specializing on finding the structure of a rare protein only found in the feet of Amazonian forrest-mice is to put your eyes too close to the diagram; P.hDs for specializing/having a very narrow topic for one´s mind to engage in are for people who don´t see the forest for the trees and care to rather look at one leaf of one tree instead of thinking about and seeing the forest as a whole. I´m a forest person – a leaf 10 cm from my eyes just bugs me. That´s why there is a finite repertoire to what I call “science” – it takes a few days for me (my accomplishment/my work) to be fully understood and if repeated repetative. One only needs to know why/where one exists (the existential theory) once – one can´t forget it because we are made to remember the very context in which we live (here an evolutionary bias helps us: when someone explains “what the world is” we remember it because “what the world was” in caveman days was the most useful thing the brain could do – in fact we evolved such large brains because bigger brains remember better (can moreso map social relationships, successfull or unsuccesfull learning-experiences). We want to climb upwards in the hierarchy, find a mate, etc but all these wants and needs would be useless (they´d having nothing to work on) if it weren´t for the map (of social relationships etc) that our brain is capable of remembering. We are inclined to remember existential theories because such knowledge about our place in the context was as useful as mapping whom is married to whom. This bias, by the way, is something holy book writers used to get people interested in their book. “God created earth in 6 days (not 5)” is memorable because of our bias toward wanting to know about “creation of the world” – so the number “6 days” is remembered too because it adds to the map that we then work on to seek power and other evolutionary benefits. It´s hard to make plans that have one reach evolutionary benefits if one does not know one´s environment/the external world. “6 days for creating this place/world” adds to one´s map of the environment/place/external world. We have a bias for remembering it. Too bad the bronze-age holy books used this marketing trick (“hey, let´s say something about their world (like the creation of it) because that would be something they remember!”) to give pseudo- existential theories. The holy books made sales because not only do people want information about their context, people also want God to talk and interfere with day-to-day personal activites. Once you have a pseudo-explanation for how/why the world was created, you´re free to add to that pseudo-explanation that “the creator talks”. It´s impossible to add such a talking thing to my existential theory – not only is it unnecessary (my theory works stand-alone) but it also contradicts basically every concept of my existential theory. The very definitions of energymasspacetime (meaning that God had nothingness as the canvas to paint on – a nothingness that needs energymass and summons it because of the laws of nature inherent in that nothingness – and chose to paint a beginning with as-dense-as-can-be (just like E=mc2 would´ve created it because E=mc2 is true in the smallest spaces). Where was God when this happened? Couldn´t have been energymass because energymass is only summoned once the universe becomes pure nothingness. If God is not energymass and energymass is existence – then God doesn´t exist / God is nothing. What doesn´t exist or is nothing doesn´t give revalations to men, doesn´t care whom you sleep with, etc. Is God or God´s heaven a location in our size of infinite spacetime? In that case God is simply a far-away alien (which warrants questions about its evolution) but again – it doesn´t talk to us because of the distance and we wouldn´t be too impressed even if an evolved God did talk to us (we are quite like it – our science is the same, our world-view is the same). God is not a location in a size but is God a size? The sizerange is infinite (as proven by distinction not being able to see antidistinction) and that´d mean that there´s a creator to God (and that thing too has a creator, ad infinitum) IN THE SAME WAY as humans built cities or atoms make molecules. Again, if God is a size it warrant´s the question: is God every location of that size or is God, like humans, in a location of that size? Whatever be the case, God still couldn´t communicate with us. Since God fits neither in the context of energymasspacetime nor the context of the sizerange, a God-theory absolutely contradicts the true theory. What is said about God – that God is the greatest – makes only one “location”/notion in the existential theory correspond to a non-talking uncaring God: the theory itself (and more precisely Reality/[that of which all is part]) is the greatest. It certainly doesn´t hear/talk nor give revalations because it comes as an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime. When you tell this science, you can get to the point where you define Reality as “that of which all is part” and the greatest – you can even get to antidistinction/the unrepresentability of Reality (fully, because we do represent some things) and people might still hope that a talking God can exist. But as soon as you mention the less abstract (the more abstract was that [that of which all is part cannot be observed]), the God-theory either surrenders or is in conflict with a/the existential theory which certainly is true (anyone can verify how the components of the theory fit together, make sense and explain everything). God as a synonym for Reality is boring – why do we even have two words if we mean the same (scientific sizerange) thing.
If you assume that God is a synonym for Reality (which comes as an infinite sizescale, which in turn predicts a DNA-strand somewhere and voila: everything is explained), then I believe in your God. It doesn´t appriciate my appriciation of it though, nor do rituals, following rules (made by men) etc please it. If I am to “show my appriciation to it” I do it by writing as I do right now – that´s my worship of it: but I´m under no illusion that this writing would please God by being logical (eventhough Reality itself is logical too – so we have something incommon) – me writing can be called worship but the only appriciating recipients of my writing are me and readers of my text. Whatever I write about Reality/God doesn´t please God (because God is not a thing that listens, likes worship by others and other human needs) – whatever worshippers do, I hope they do it for themselves and for other humans because no-one else is able to care or comprehend the worship. I would do the muslim prayer if I felt that that kind of discipline would benefit me (and a few times I did get a good feeling from going to the mosque and being among worshippers). It´s so easy to adapt to the customs of one´s peers (and especially one´s superiors, if one believes that there are those) that my attitude toward worship/ritual is “when in Rome, do like the romans (if you or others gain something out of it)”. The world is complex – I could have the same attitude toward the beliefs of islam: that I´ll just say that something is through eventhough it obviously isn´t because it contradicts, say, a talking holy book-writing God. Could I make myself believe that something talkative is God? The belief disintegrates and I get the foul feeling of that I´ve used my valuable memory to note down a lie everytime I would think just one step/association further from the belief itself. I can believe (in anything) but analyzing it even the smallest amount will make me disbelieve it. But when you´re in the mood of not analyzing – like when one is having a panic attack on one´s death-bed – I´ll be (extremely) simplistic and do what some people seem to always do: “believe (in something that breaks down when analyzed)”. What confuses me is that some people believe all the time – they seem perfectly sane but they believe in a talking, scripture-giving God (that doesn´t fit anywhere in the existential theory). Do they need comfort (from untruth) all the time? It seems like they´re trying to argue their position, though. A perplexing phenomenon at first glance but when you consider that they´re uneducated about my existential theory, any theory will do (even a talking God-theory). I am not hateful of it when I see it in other people – I see it as humorous/ridicilous – but when it binds people together (to form what in essence is an army) and there´s many of them (10 000 religions/”armies”) the world´s got a problem. Binding people together through their shared scripture and their belief that something impossible is true is bad because groups tend to be more violent than individualists – especially if their holy text 1) seems to bind billions of people to their army (morale-strength amplification in a group is the root of violence), and 2) preaches violence/disrespect (many holy books are xenophobic and eager to create an “us vs. them”-social dynamic). If the holy book is taken seriously (if it can´t be thrown in the trash) then we have bronze-age xenophobia (based on who likes the book and who doesn´t) creeping into the modern day, and we also have artificial bonding/loyalty – we basically get groups who are hostile (or more disrespectful) toward anyone who doesn´t see the point (“there´s a talking God”) they´re promoting. It´s such an easily fixable problem: if you read my work you simply cannot believe in a talking God – my professional role is that you can give me ANY individual and I can “convert” him/her into not believing in a talking God. Whether this person will follow his or her group´s rituals or codes of conduct, though, is up to them – it´s sheer peer pressure.
The “us vs. them” “we are a big group” (and especially) “we should convert the whole world so that they use their precious memory for knowing nonsense like we do” are such great reasons for violence – and of course it´s fixable because what these people lack is education: only where there is no theory, can a pseudo-theory take root. Only where there is no argument/debate/science can “God talks” seem like legitimate truth. This means that much of the world´s violence is due to a lack of education (about the big questions i.e. what I talk about). Sure: some religions can be interpreted to say “kill the infidels” or some other explicit declaration of war – but it´s hard for a religion to survive if it constantly preaces fighting (it must have more clever tactics than that – but it does tend to seek world-dominion). I´m not so worried that someone reads the Quran and thinks “I´ll help the [unbelieves in the Quran´s talking God] to get to hell faster, because the Quran says that that´s where they belong”. I am worried about that the Quran (or any holy book) is the glue that binds people together. Religion is the last glue before we enter an era where obviously arbitrary things like nationalism or language makes strangers feel more familiar with eachother. Nation and language aren´t taken that seriously – nor should religion be, but it is. This binding-effect that holy books have is what makes ISIS / the taliban etc so hard to defeat – they think, not only that they have an all-seeing revalation-giving God on their side, but they also have the exact same copy of a book that a billion people have. They feel strong (with their, seemingly to them, superior numbers). Obviously ISIS underestimated the ability of the Quran to draw in arab nations into the fight over Iraq & Syria – the modern world simply leaned on the fact that ISIS are not muslims because they interpret the bronze-age ramble wrong. But ISIS / the taliban is still a factor – the quran binds too many people together in certain areas of the world – violence is caused, due to the binding-effect, the “moral superiority”-effect, the “power in numbers and billions of people read the Quran”-effect etc (all these effects are there even if you skip the parts about the talking God who word for word said the Quran) make men as prone to violence as anything can make them: they´re a group with an “us vs. them” dogma & feeling and they feel like they have power in numbers. Add to that the frustration over having to finance an own home before one can ejaculate. Those circumstances can make the group take up arms and “send the infidels where they belong”. Following the commandments frustrates, the whole notion of “let´s all prioritize this text highest (our favorite book) so that we´re bound together” and that the text itself can be interpreted as violent all are a breeding-ground for trouble – and when you´re in the trouble that the text creates, you are not in the state of mind to do the internal debate necessary to disprove a talking God and thus make your whole way of life become something that you either do as meaningless fun or don´t do because no-one cares. But just as some people want to become professional soccer players and some atheists do zen-meditation, humans (by personal preference) want hobbies, to take up a discipline, to do something that adds, say, pride to their life. I don´t personally care about soccer and I don´t feel pride from doing any ritual, but I can definitely see that others take the muslim prayers like an athlete takes their sport. It´s possible to find out the objective truth about whether these prayers “please God or not” (by, like I´ve done in this text, disproving all kinds of false Gods and making the real God more mundane and not a talker). Rituals don´t please Reality/”the energymasspacetime sizerange” because it is not a thing that gets pleased – it´s like trying to please a rock. You do the prayers because you enjoy the pride/hobby for its own sake – like someone doing sports likes his/her sport. Pleasing a rock/God to get to a “heaven” (which too doesn´t fit into the true existential theory) is stupid unless it´s akin to a hobby/sport where you do it for doing it´s sake. Same thing with the “heaven hates ham”-thing – when you know enough science (enough = what I´ve written so far in this text) you´ll realize that the whole ham-prohibition is man-made (from the bronze age) and linked to some pre-scientific nonsense from-the-horse´s-mouth-
statement (can´t say rationale because it´s dogma). If you (and secondarily your peers) are dedicated to nonsense (whether it be sports, stamp-collecting, memorizing capitals or not eating pork), then do it if it does something good like prove to yourself (and others) that you have a strong discipline (even though your effort is misdirected toward nonsense). I can invent a ritual and do it every day, and maybe I´d feel pride over that I can keep to a schedule of nonsense, but I would never claim the theory that there is a talking God, and by extention I wouldn´t say that that ficticious talker prohibited ham. The mundane action must be differentiated from the logical argument. Ham-prohibitions and talking Gods are artifacts that belong in the past – modern white A4-paper is too beautiful for someone to write something as erroneous as “there is a talking God” on it. But as I´m writing this, people are dying because religion binds them together (and frustrates them, and boosts their war-morale in many ways). My work can cause a civil war within ISIS – a civil rift so permiating that only family ties, friendships and common goals (to get money, not to spread islam) can keep people together in groups. Once my existential theory is known there will still be crime and instability in Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan, but the evil deeds will only be committed by groups of 2-3 people – not 20 000 of them. The binding effect of the Quran can most clearly be seen in that internet-propaganda made Quran-readers from the USA and Europe go fight in Syria – everyone wants a group and it´s totally human to assume that knowing the same book will be enough for a bond to be as strong as one wants it to be.
Right now “my work” is 9 proper texts and a few videos. They all talk about the same thing (which can be formulated as: I´ll say as much as I can about things I´ve never heard anyone else say (and I´ve seen the best professors in the world teaching truths)). To cause a rift in the taliban/ISIS and stop the war by making group-bonding (around a holy book) problematic/impossible, my whole “work” doesn´t need to be dropped as propaganda books on top of ISIS and the taliban. It´s enough that the news headlines say that “a correct all-explaining existential theory has been found – religions in crysis” or that enough people know my theory so that a multitude of youtube videos are made where, in a sentence or two, the presenter goes off-topic and mentions why we exist / something from my theory. Having understood it once makes it impossible to forget – having understood it once makes group-bonding over religion (which fuels ISIS/the taliban/etc) impossible. If the world could just take 20 minutes of its´ time to spend on explaining/teaching/arguing my work/theory, then the war on terror would be over – otherwise it will persist as long as people have no actual, logical theory about their existence and thus believe in bronze-age marketing tricks.
Author
yonis
Posted on
13/03/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Am I a muslim?
Pitfalls of the mind
Pitfalls of the Mind
The toolkit – our brain – has never before in history gotten any evolutionary benefits from contemplating the topics contemplated in this book. The toolkit is not made for what we use it for. For example, since the arguments/proofs and conclusions in this book are long (as you´d except from 21st century science), the brain starts fidgeting impatiently because it wants concrete plans (instead of abstract series of logic) that lead fo a clear outcome. This book, or rather the impact of it being popularized, will have a clear outcome: it will remove, educate and unite – it will remove the possibility of the bronze-age-style God that gives revalations and chooses sides in wars, this book will educate about the most important topic (the big questions of life) giving everyone an incommon smallest demoninator, and since our intellectual cultures coelesce into one universal world-view it will unite us (cause more of a sense of friendship) globally. I don´t know which one is more important a consequence of teaching the universal curriculum with its universal idea: that religious wars end (religion no longer gives fighting-spirit/morale to jihadists once the Quran has proven to be an impossibly farfetched appendix to the minimalist theory that is science/this book), or is it more important that I know your analytical toolkit and the approximate knowledge-repertoire which you draw from – nay: I know the Big Picture: my work only deals with the interdisciniplary most meta grandest broad-view topics – those everyone will have incommon while, of course, the level of detail of one´s knowledge when zooming in into the overarching diagram (upon which everyone agrees) differs from person to person (but is rather insignificant since the broad-theme that my work has already answers all questions except practial such (like how to build a fridge). My work answers which diagram the universe has every planet (there are infinitely many planets) race toward (the size-time-diagram) and the universe also speaks the linguistic definitions, refinements and footnotes to the visuals so much so that they´re the same on other planets. From this we know how/why the Big Bang started and how it ends as it started: in/as nothingness (with E=mc2 being true in the smallest spaces). We know that the sizerange is infinite because of the distinction-antidistinction-
opposition. This is one pitfall for the mind: distinction (between thinker and thought is merely the notion that they are distinct/separate – you can´t move around distinction or touch distinction: it´s an abstract notion. Same goes for anti-distinction (distinction´s opposite) which is even harder to grasp because it´s synonymous with “that of which all is part”/the one all-encompassing grandest singular Reality. So two abstract notions, distinction and anti-distinction, unite but first chooses us to one team: representers/representation is distinction. When we represent we are distinct and thus cannot represent anti-distinction. A caveat to this is that our representations, inability to see anti-distinction/Reality, etc are all phenomena in Reality – so really both teams picked us: we are in the distinction-realm and in the anti-distinction realm but in different ways: eventhough we are in anti-distinction we do not see our world as anti-distinction (we see separate entities, not all as one). All is one but we don´t see it that way. So we are in both realms/teams but in one we´re blind toward the anti-distinct nature of our surroundings/that team, and being in the other team means we see distinction (distinct entities) but we don´t see the opposite of distinction: Reality (that one of which all is part).
Having an opposition (distinction-antidistinction-
opposition) in which we exist in both opposing sides simultaneously, and both sides being abstract notions (instead of concrete) is something very unusual to think about considering the long stretches of time during which the brain evolved. We never became good at pitting two abstract things against eachother, choosing to be in both of them even though they´re opposites, and then not seeing one of them (that of which all is part; anti-distinction) with the caveat that we´re not really seeing distinction either: distinction is not a noun that you can touch. Reading science-fiction novels is easy while reading my work prompts you to pause to think about what my point is or what a sentence means – but then again you read science-fiction novels and my work for different purposes: my work ends wars (by proving, for sure, that God doesn´t fit into my work´s model except as a synonym for Reality, and as a synonym for Reality it doesn´t give revalations like hating ham (instead it´s an infinite size-range with infinitely many consequetive Big Bangs of energymasspacetime…, meaning it´s about as much unlike a mind (“a jelous God”) as you could possible get). Understanding my work will, by very simple associations from my work to religion, push religions through an enlightenment/reneissance; the religious become moderates since my work makes belief/faith harder to uphold against the force of logical proof/my work. They say that even doubting (having doubts in one´s faith in God) is a religious phenomenon – well, my work is an explanation which leaves no question unanswered and which doesn´t need God – and in addition, since my work draws a size-time-diagram and proves that it is infinite, there is no space/room for God to be in. You can conform religion to fit my scientific framework/model by making God synonymous with Reality, but this is not how the founders of the religion wanted their invention to be marketed/believed in. Bronze-age charlatans needed a “mind outside the size-time-diagram, which gives certain self-appointed chosen men power/revalations” – a mind “outside” spacetime (spacetime being defined as all outsideness too since it´s all of space and infinite) not only is an unnecessary addition to my model (it would deviate this minimalist theory into something that adds unnecessary additions), but a talking, miracle-making etc God uglifies the theory. An Picasso or an architect does not let his 4-year old kid go loose with the crayons on the painting/blueprint – likewise we don´t need the religious to add bronze-age semi-ideas to a modern model.
Speaking of pitfalls for the mind and religion: all religions seem to have a 1-idea starting-point existential theory. “Why do we exist?” The answer never begins with “let me list three equally important concepts as starting points to the explanation and which intertwine later in the story, cooperating and amplifying one another…” All religious answers to “why do we exist?” begin with one idea each: either “God created earth” or “the world came forth from an egg”, etc. Having a 3-pillared existential theory is modern, complex and takes use of abstract thinking (rather than story-telling sagas). Humans are story-tellers: very rarely in evolution did we have the need to explain something in a scientific way. If some explanation (like the existential theory´s) doesn´t have the format of a story, our evolved mind finds it unusual (and more boring).
The existential theory´s three pillars/sub-ideas, however, (infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime and distinction-antidistinction-
opposition) cannot be refined/summarized further. It´s not enough of a challenge to our evolved mind that the three sub-ideas themselves contain notions like infinity, size as a range/axis (diagram), 1 and 0 (something and nothing; energymass and spacetime) intertwined as a single word, and then the opposition between distinction and anti-distinction. The existential theory predicts that there should be infinitely many sizes and times, and since we can draw a size-time-diagram (because every possible object has a size and a time – again warranting the question: where, in this, is God?) the pitfall for the mind comes from that space (size) and time obviously are intertwined/connected/one. We´ve taken one thing (spacetime) and derived size from space and then divided size-time into two perpendicular axises. This is useful because it lets us show every field of science (every object) on a single 2-axis diagram, but the pitfall comes from that we must linguistically add the footnote that this diagram is an abstraction (visual abstraction) because the two axises are really connected just as size and time are. Now, not only are we dealing with abstract linguistic words, assocations and conclusions but even our visuals have become abstract. When in evolution did we need abstract visuals? Never. It took until the 1600s before the basic coordinate system was invented.
Speaking of abstract words leading to abstract visuals: distinction-antidistinction-
opposition (the fact that there are separate objects in one world) is the lead-up to a conclusion, the conclusion being that nothing can represent (due to the fundamental truth that representation is distinction no matter if brains are involved or not; who defines or if someone defines an event as a “representation” doesn´t matter – that´s how vaguely/loosely Reality itself defines the notion “to represent” – but even with this lax definition of what represents what, whatever cannot represent “that of which all is part”/Reality/anti-distinction because distinction and anti-distinction are opposites. This is abstract argument/reasoning and it too is something we never had to deal with during caveman days – it is uniquely modern and thus perplexing to the expectations (that the brain got from evolution) of the brain. The abstract argument about distinction-antidistinction-
opposition, however, leads to a conclusion: there is infinitely much to Reality (because representation (and hypothesising about the infinitely large) is possible). The visual way of drawing this conclusion is to acknowledge that everything must have a size- and a time-value – these become two coordinates (y, x) which, like we said, are only disunited for clarity and in the abstract: in reality size and time are together. Ergo: if size is infinite then time is infinite – but something here is infinite because we can represent whatever (or rather: representation can occur (without a brain – this is how loosely the universe defines “representation”) and no representation is (all there is to) Reality, and every object in Reality has a size and a time, and size and time are united, meaning size and time are infinite. In the visual representation of this conclusion we can draw a square (two axis, size and time) with infinity symbols all around the square. This is a drawing derived from firmly established science and it could be made into a tattoo or T-shirt logo, meaning other planets draw it too (the byproduct of proving that size is infinitely large is that one simultaneously proves that there are infinitely many locations of the human size – there are infinitely many planets with water… Infinity means that there are more humans sitting on the same science (and most interestingly: the same picture we just drew). It´s universal – like what revalations claimed to be but weren´t.
Our logical step-by-step reasoning is something modern, but luckily our evolved toolkit has a word/function very much alike what´s needed to understand my work. The upshot is that evolution gave us the word “then” – and if, in a story (which is what we evolved to hear instead of abstract argument) one can imagine scenario two (after “then”) as following from movement/re-arrangement of scenario one (before “then”), then we consider the transition between one and two possible/truthful assuming the story-teller is not lying. “Then” is what connects two notions or sequences of logic or bits of argument to a conclusion. The downside of having this kind of story-teller-based system is that we expect the conclusion to be worthwhile hearing – we expect it to be worthwhile hearing not for some grand cause like ending religious wars, disproving ISIS´ God in argument, making people more friendly toward one another by everyone having the same incommon denominator (alike world-views), or dragging civilization forward like Einstein did – no: we expect a conclusion that triggers our monkey-based emotional repertoire. We are wired so that we can logically think it´s all well and good that my work can end wars, bring people closed and push civilization to advance – but it´s so modern that we don´t get a primitive emotional response from those conclusions/outcomes. I personally feel the honor of doing something hard, modern and good. We are wired so that: if the understanding of my work would magically make your favorite fruit appear so you could eat it, you´d moreso feel that my work was worthwhile reading than if you are helping in all these modern abstract endevours like driving civilization forward. “Monkey want banana” is the toolkit we´re working with and “you´re helping advance civilization and overcome a thousands of years old tradition of superstition that leads to theocracy and war” isn´t as rewarding/intruiging and simply getting a banana. We want simple, quick, straight-forward rewards instead of things that are hard to understand because they´re so complex; simple, eatable and predictable is safe while grand and unfamiliar to our evolved toolkit feels unsafe and like venturing into the dark.
Another pitfall for the mind is that the evolutionary narrative is too long: there is a too long of a sequence of steps leading to steps. During millions of years stories were not that long without involving some intrigue, witches, murder, gold treasures and other interesting things. The evolutionary narrative is explanatory rather than exciting and interesting – and the evolved mind might take all of evolution as a joke because it hears a long long narrative of step leading to step but then the conclusion – the end of the story – is that we “are here today”. It´s a 2-hour talk to say the obvious: that we are here. This is a pitfall because of the high-investment of time and listening-effort and the low reward of knowing that one is here.
Another pitfall is that I argue that it is a moral good to imitate (the infinitely many) aliens WHOM WE WILL NEVER SEE. Since we have to always adapt our modern projects (including our morality) to our toolkit´s evolved nature, there are two arguments that produce a moral philosophy:
1) Peer-pressure light-years away: eventhough we´ll never meet the aliens we know that they know/read/teach universal texts/pictures (like I do in my work); if they have any appriciation for knowing where they are, how they came to be, how the brain works, etc (the big questions of life which, if you know the answers to them, you can lead a better life). We didn´t evolve to feel peer-pressure from light-years away so another way of saying the exact same thing, which sounds as religious as I´ll ever get, is:
2) the universe/Reality/science steers all planets toward the same world-view (including the same morality). Science is like a river or currant and through some work (learning/teaching/inventing) we can float and drift in the same direction as the river. If we insist on breaking away from the natural course of the river by being unscientific, we´ll propably reak havoc on ourselves because that´s synonymous to being irrational. By being rational one floats with the river. All planets realize this and choose to float with the river because rationality has given us infinitely much more than any bronze-age cult. The pitfall is that we evolved to feel peer-pressure and adapt to peers and celebrities on TV – if the culture is wrong (unscientific, like the TV is today) then it is very hard to float or even swim along the universe´s currant because ever since wolves and monkeys we´ve been in the “monkey see, monkey do”-mode. We live the era when only rebels can float with the universal current (because they know it´s right because it´s science), but the next era will be one where it becomes mainstream to drive oneself and one´s planet to go along with the universes´ current – whether it be to feel imagined peer-pressure from other planets, or because rationality is the best tool for improving life and solving problems, or because one has respect for Reality and wants to do as it “wants” us to do (it, using rationality, steers all toward truth rather than superstition). The pitfalls of the mind are a good example of the toolkit evolution gave us and how we´ve got to go through mental acrobatics to make that toolkit perform logic/tasks which benefit us (in way´s we don´t feel are benefits because of that toolkit again).
One major pitfall, unless you´re inclined toward the morbid/emo, is that my theory/world-view/science is not like the bronze-age cults/religions which said “obey rules & rituals to get to heaven”. I don´t promise eternal life with all pleasures fulfilled in exchange for you doing rituals. I can see why, if you believe in such trades, it would make you happy that you get eternal life with pleasures for the small price of doing some rituals and obeying some rules – you don´t even need to think for yourself! What luxury. Of course my work has already proven that whoever invented such claims/cults/religions was a snake-oil salesman; he promises things which are not real and which run counter to the certainly true rationality-based theory of my work (his promises simply has no place in a thinking educated human), so the rituals done and the rules obeyed were extremely bad if they were a suicide bombing, a waste of money if the church got paid, but most rituals are raising-paradigms where discipline and structure are enforced – so whether those kinds of rituals are good or bad depends on your view of discipline and structure being taught and upheld eventhough the ritual itself is useless (unlike tooth-brushing which is useful discipline).
If there were only 6 religions (there are tens of thousands), they could be put on sides of a dice and when you roll the dice it´s 1/6 chance that you get truth and 5/6 risk that you get some “stranger-promised-me-eternal-
life-with-bliss-in-exchange-
for-rituals”-religion. While the dice is spinning the question arises: what if truth is bleaker than “eternal life of bliss after death with an allmighty supervisor who gets pleasure from seeing people do his rituals”. A story, incompatible with even as simple a science as an infinite size-time-diagram of energymasspacetime with distinction-antidistinction-
opposition (the 3 ideas of the existential theory), might (if believed in even a little bit (which requires one to discard as much of what´s certainly true)) make one more happy than the cold truth. There is nothing saying that all sides of the spinning dice are equally likely to promise satisfaction for your evolved animal needs. A side of the dice that promises you, in an impossibly magical way, wealth, health and fame in an eternal after-life might very well incline you toward hope and optimism in this life, while a side that talks about a hard-for-the-evolved-toolkit-
to-feel-comfortable-with meaningless infinite sizerange as the explanation for why we exist gives a feeling of meaninglessness: the sizerange can´t talk, it doesn´t offer its condolences if someone close to me dies, it doesn´t reward me with an afterlife depending on whether I´m good or evil, talking to it is as worthwhile as talking to a rock… The true world-view is not as possible as a false world-view – and why would it be: the most ficticious stories have no limits on what they can promise people in the future (or what they can make people do here and now, it seems). I think there should be an age-limit to when the theory of evolution is taught to kids: humans being here because of so much homicidal death, life being a struggle to maximize things which there are infinitely many of (like reproduction, power and resource-gathering), millions of years of wars over women, territory, pride, “setting one´s mark in history-books” – bloodshed on an enormous scale just for vanity. Evolution is depressing, especially when you start seeing the subconscious will to power in people you deal with on a day-to-day basis – they´re climbing up an infinite power-ladder by “socially accepted” means like back-handed compliments and Machiavellian court-politics – and no matter how high they climb and how many people they made feel bad while they were climbing, there is still infinitely much left to climb. Synopsis of this being: people hurt eachother because of our infinite greed, and no matter what we achieve we evolved to maximize all we´ve got (because maximization was better than being satisfied and idle to millions of years of our ancestors). The depressing context (evolution) with its personal anxiety-giving maximization leads to resource-consumption, which in turn leads to a future with global warming and an end of oil (which causes yet more anxiety, but also the urge to read my work). The existential theory is meaningless and evolution is depressing – meaninglessness and depression compete, in the competition among ideas, with “eternal life (after your death) where all your needs are more than satisfied”. If we had no qualms about true vs untrue – if we did not care about truth and untruth at all – we´d choose religion over science just because it makes us feel better. That is a pitfall of the mind: we don´t like my work; we don´t like reading things which bring us down; we´d rather read the most uplifting fantasy than the most certainly true depressing theory.
So in my theory nihilism substitutes heaven/hell, the Golden Rule (do onto others like you´d want them do onto you because you´re obviously like them) substitutes moral rules (like the ten commandments), there are no rituals that can be derived from science except the world-view itself (and a universal curriculum that teaches it) and the pictoral diagram. The diagram contains at least 5 drawable symbols (infinity signs, evolution) and one can represent it using one´s hands (by making a square for the size-time-diagram and a triangle (that originates at the center of the square) for evolution becoming more complex as time goes on). No-one wants to do a hand-sign of a square then triangle nor wear the symbol/diagram on a T-shirt – my work/science offers very very little ritual/art compared to any one of the world religions. Compare islam´s complex system of prayers, taxes, mosque-architecture, fasting, travelling, exceptions to all the former and the 5 prayers per day (and formal detail about exactly how many times to bend in prayer depending on which day it is), compare that to my “make a square and a triangle with your hands”. I wish science could lend us more rituals – I find it a really cool prospect that the universe itself have a ritual and that infinitely many aliens are during that ritual because they know science just as we do. I guess my work (writing about science) is a ritual in itself, and so is reading my work/science. Personally, I like structure/ritual/dancing and I wish there were universal such, but sadly there´s not.
The final pitfall for the mind is that my work/science itself is a visual diagram (size-time, where every coordinate is an object, and with infinity-symbols in each corner of the square) with linguistic definitions, details and clarifications. This is a WORLD-VIEW – it is the context: the external (and internal) world. Our brains, just like any animal´s brain whom builds a world-view, evolved to have a very different kind of world-view: something mundane, intuitive – a kind of map of one´s geographical and social surroundings with details about personalities and what objects can do and be used for. Never was that natural map of one´s immidiate local location somekind of argumentative rationale consisting and resulting in abstract visuals and linguistic concepts; for millions of years our “world-view” was not complex logician´s relationships between invisible/abstract concepts; never was one thing in one´s world-view defined as two (like the size-time-diagram is really spacetime as a single thing). The modern world-view that I present conflicts and stumbles over all kinds of pitfalls of the mind which try to say “hey, keep it simple – you´re a caveman who need only know how to hunt and where to get water, and whom are around you – use that knowledge to get power and other evolutionary benefits!” But no: I have two world-views: one “local” of the people I deal with day-to-day and a mental map of my house, but then I also have the meta-context which is this complex argument and step-by-step logic, associations and disassociations between scientific concepts – and it is this world-view that gives me most pride: I have floated long along universe´s river; I´ve been steered toward where curious scientists on infinitely many other planets are steered (not toward random sides of the dice but to a universal focal-point that the brain adapts to). My work is teachable meaning it´s only a matter of time before our entire civilization undergoes a paradigm-shift – once you´ve heard my work a few times all subsequent repetition of it becomes like hearing over and over that the earth is round: one already knows all there is to know about a topic. Today all people know that the earth is round and in a few decades everyone will know what I´ve worked out in my work. That will end the era of group-cohesion based on religious ties (which today holds ISIS together – no quran = no glue between ISIS-members) and it will enhance sympathy between people (a more loving world) because we´ll know what a stranger is thinking (i.e. what he/she believes to be true about the grandest context in which he/she lives – we´ll all have the same associations and disassociations between ideas). Planets/civilizations go through eras of history and we are right on the verge of moving into the era of more love and less war, where everyone has both a natural/normal toolkit-conforming world-view and also the abstract pinnacle-of-civilization world-view with all its pitfalls for the mind.
Another thing that works against the spreading of my work is that I deal with concepts like “size”, “time”, “coordinate systems” etc – I use words that 15 year olds know. My whole science could´ve been invented in caveman days – my work doesn´t utilize (many) modern ideas and this begs the question: is my work really, actually new? My thesis could´ve been invented in caveman days but it wasn´t: some proofs of this are that: you can´t find a size-time-diagram eventhough it unites all fields of science (on the y-axis) and shows all objects through all times (on the x-axis). The size-time-diagram, especially when size and time are proven to be infinite, is such a multidisciplinary tool which, if you add the linguistic footnotes “energymasspacetime” and “distinction-antidistinction-
opposition”, becomes a full-fledged existential theory – it explains why our known sizerange and our known stretch of time exists; it is a modern rival to all ancient creation-myths. The face that you haven´t seen a size-time-diagram before learning it from my work, and the fact that bronze-age creation myths are today more widespread, more popular and more believed in than my theory (the prevelance of God) go to show that my ideas haven´t gained traction; if one knows my idea then one cannot unlearn it and it relentlessly makes one doubt whatever bronze-age explanation of the universe that one´s country´s holy book teaches. Most of the world believes in God but they wouldn´t if they knew my theory – this shows that my theory is new (it´s my invention in the 21st century eventhough the component ideas (like size and time) have been known for millennia).
Maybe the story about how I found my idea sheds some light on how such an obvious (in hindsight) and composed of simple components-idea could remain undiscovered until the 21st century. I watched The Teaching Company´s professors on video – it´s the best professors in the world and each gets around 15 hours to say the most important notions from his/her field. I watched 200+ such courses – it took me 8 years. Logic told me that if I discover something (of importance such as an existential theory or proof that the sizerange is infinite) that none of the TTC-professors has mentioned, then my invention must be new and I should focus on it to advance it further until I know it completely. I saw courses about each size (the entire known sizerange) and this is what is usually called “the fields of science”. I then found a mysterious interest for Einstein´s thoughts on that energy and mass are the same and space and time are the same (and energymass and spacetime are in the same equation) – this led me to conclude that “reality is one”. I also knew that Descartes´ certain truth (I think & I exist) must, globally and universally, be the starting point for some future course that will be taught to everybody. Luckily my two interests (Descartes´ distinction and Einstein´s anti-distinction) overrode my evolved bias that says: “if two things are opposites then only one of them is true/valid” – I knew both to be valid, but opposites, but “within one another” all at the same time. I focused on that thought for years because no professor had mentioned it – it is such a fascinating topic that the TTC-professors would´ve mentioned it in the time they had if they had considered it a significant topic (which it is). Since it was an unmentioned significant topic I decided to take up, as a hobby, to ponder this mysterium – and soon it dawned on me that “I (by being distinct) cannot see Reality” and maybe a month later it dawned on me that this means that there is more to Reality than can be hypothesized, and yet a few months later it dawned on me that it is sizes and times that there are more of. All fields of science are stretches along the size-axis and if the size-axis is infinite then there´s infinitely many fields of science (though they´re not studyable for us because they´re beyond the knowable sizerange). This is awe-inspiring – the most “divine” conclusion I´ve ever found. The fact that I hadn´t heard my line of reasoning, even though its importance and awe-inspiring nature, in school nor by the best professors the world has to offer (TTC), I knew I had become a scientists – one of those that invents what professors then teach. I knew I was onto something new and true (and unfound until now because of the pitfalls and biases of the mind) because if it had been invented before – it being an existential theory rivaling “God created earth…” – I would´ve heard it, especially having watched 200+ university-level programs by the best professors. But to you as the reader it might be a pitfall for your mind that my idea, though abstract, uses components that were available millennia ago – but if this is a pitfall for you: remember that 90% of the world is religious meaning they don´t have an existential theory except one that is more like a saga, not an explanation. We´re fighting religious wars where the Quran binds together taliban with taliban, ISIS with ISIS, etc. The president of the USA said, in his inauguration, that God had chosen USA – it makes no sense for the sizerange of energymasspacetime to “choose” (as if it was a mind) a country. There´s evidence of religion all-over the world, which is proof that my work hasn´t penetrated; even though my work rests on simple ideas (but the book lets the mind go through many evolved pitfalls), if you ask people why there is a size-range in the first place they just shrug instead of quote “it´s infinite, made of energymasspacetime and distinction-antidistinction-
opposition”. My work is unknown even though it could´ve been realized in caveman days. It took me watching the best professors to get up to date with where science was, for me to be able to filter out a hobby-idea to develop further – because I knew that if the implications of the idea were big and global, and it had never been mentioned to me even though I´ve seen 200 of the best professors, then I must be onto something.
Author
yonis
Posted on
13/03/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Pitfalls of the mind
the context
The context for this book is that Bill Maher, in his movie Religulous, says that it´s a doomsday scenario that we humans invented nuclear weaponry before we got rid of religions. Christopher Hitchens said the same thing in a different way in his many books: that religion poisons human relationships and that many world conflicts are religion-based. This may not seem like a current issue now that the religiously-bound group ISIS (which allied itself, based on religion, to other similar groups in Africa) is nearly defeated. The Israel-Palestine conflict, where religion is the main cause for “us vs. them-grouping”, is on a slow simmer. But what happens if the world decides to take global warming seriously and reduce global emissions/consumption, or if an economic crisis happens, or if the oil runs out (as it eventually will)? We´d be better off without religious rifts. We´d be better off without large groups (tied by religion). We´d rather have the state of affairs that already exists in many places like Brazil or India: there´s the affluent and there´s the poor, and the crime and tension that thus exists – but we won´t have a clash of civilizations based on religion, a world war 3. The rulers of Muslim nations, if they turned away from religion, would be ousted in coup d’états by the populations which demand a theocracy – there´ll be a rift like there was in Libya between western values and sharia law. If God is removed from the whole debate, it becomes a reasonable debate about sexuality  (and pork-eating). If it is in everyone´s minds made impossible that God gives revelations, then we´re dealing with human-made codes of conduct and laws – which can be rationally debated.
Author
yonis
Posted on
13/03/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on the context
Text (12 pages)
I can tell you everything about God.
This book won’t be a commentary on any holy book though; it won’t be in the tradition of interpretation of dogmas, sagas and mysteries. It won’t be a mystic’s spiritual book which disengages the rational analytical mind. Instead I’ll tell you everything about God in the tradition that Einstein and philosophers belonged to. It will be an algebra-like linguistic relationship-between-symbols (with just two visuals) analysis of what’s true.
I can tell you everything about God in the rational tradition – but before you think this will be an atheistic refutation of God, I might aswell reveal beforehand that God & Soul are legitimate concepts and we’ll discover their rational roots tens of thousands of years ago in this book. There is a natural narrative i.e. logical cohesion from step to step in the anatomy/history of the brain that leads up to the invention of God & Soul. The mind-processes/conscious abilities which result in God & Soul being realized and thus the ideas getting an impact on the world are utilized by simple means – it is relatively easy to just stumble upon God as an idea. This is why God & Soul date back to caveman days – they’re one of the earliest artifacts of civilization: like the spear.
To tell you everything about God I should do semantics i.e. define what I mean by the word God. I won’t mention dogmas other than The Golden Rule (do onto others like you’d want them to do onto you) not rituals other than showing universal scientific symbols (like the figures in this book) – what I’ll tell you about God will be rational/abstract/theoretical and not some pretext for following one culture’s dogmas/rituals over the other 10 000 religions’ dogmas/rituals.
I’ll show you how to for yourself figure out what God is, instead of turn you to any particular raising-paradigm/holy book.
There are three groups of people:
The intellectuals who are life-long learners learning for learning’s sake; the readers who are curious for the joy of answers and read for reading’s sake.
Those who see some reason to read/learn. I’ll tell you that the reason for making the arguments in this book popular is because almost every single war/conflict in today’s world is God-related.
Knowing this book shows solidarity toward soldiers (if it’s a religious war) – teaching the idea that this book teaches can save soldiers’ lives. There is the moral argument that “it is more moral to drink & drive than to not save soldiers’ lives by helping make a book/idea popular”. If made popular, this book can make ISIS desintegrate and plunge into a civil war because nothing no longer binds them together in large a group (like “the kaliphate/the Quran/their god does).
Those who are not intellectuals/readers nor do they show solidarity toward everyone negatively impacted by misinterpretations of religions.
The name of this book hints at that I’ll try to write as closely as possible to what all revalations claimed to be: universal i.e. applicable to everyone. I’ll try to make the sequence of logic i.e. arguments i.e. what’s akin to an equation as universal as possible, meaning it can be figured out / derived no matter who or where one is. The implications of this is that this semi-revalation sequence-of-argument/logic is derived from the same Source identically on every human-like-life bearing planet in this infinite universe. This is why I call this text “The First Universal Text” preassuming the footnote that this text marks the beginning of a new intellectual tradition which is defined by its mission: to write universally. The idea in this book can be told in many less universal ways (which are maybe 0.001% of how the idea is “usually” (in the infinite universe) taught), but I’ll try to aim for the 99% usuality of how the idea is usually taught i.e. how the curriculum meta to the idea is designed. How do you design the curriculum – when a million different curriculums are possible and result in the readers learning the same idea – to be as universal as possible?
Instead of teaching the idea/science in a random order, can we derive from logic some starting points for the course (making the curriculum universal)? Yes: two starting points stand out akin to that it is logical to teach history chronologically; the two starting points for understanding God/creation/the universe are Nothingness & “I think & I am”.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
The first order of business is defining the starting points along the “Nothingness”-path & the “I think & I am” path.
Everyone spontaneously believes that he/she exists & that he/she thinks thoughts, but a man
figured this out
in the 1600s. He asked: “what in an allmighty demon would be fooling me in everything I can be fooled at/in?” What remains? Allmighty fooler on a mission to fool completely in everything.
He figured out “I exist” because there is a self necessary for a/that self to be fooled.
As a distinct line of reasoning he figured out that “being fooled is [thinking/a thought-process]”, in other words that thought exists as certainly as the self.
That is the starting point on the “I think & I exist”-path.
The man who figured this out in the 1600s, Descartes, didn’t do it to make a joke abour proving scientifically the most obvious, but he knew he had discovered a globally understandable starting point with much significance for religious conflicts. Descartes was invited to live at the queen of Sweden’s castle because of his creative rational thinking. He also invented the coordinate system ( x & y axis) to contribute to mathematics’ intellectual tradition. In this book we’ll reach Descartes’ coordinate-system invention (with size on the y-axis and time on the x-axis as the size-time diagram into which every object fits in as a coordinate) from Descartes’ “I think & BI am”-invention; the two are connected in logic but were not historically connected/associated together until I did it (400 years after Descartes invented both things).
How can you verify that what I said right now is true? I stated a historical claim about the non-associatedness of two ideas (invented by one and the same thinker). Unless you’re a history-of-science intellectual-tradition-historian you’d have a hard time verifying my claim of me deserving a prize for adding the logic that connects “I think & I am” to mathematics’ coordinate system (and the size-time diagram more specifically). Luckily the best university professors in sciences’ intellectual history are available on the internet (The Great Courses.com) and they go specifically into this topic in the “Philosophy of Mind” and “History of Science” courses – and since the best professors mention Descartes’ two ideas in one breath but
not the connection between them in a 40-lecture course, you know that not even the best current minds know the connection i.e. I’ve invented something new (which is the logic that binds the two ideas together). It is fascinating, though, that one man (Descartes) invented two ideas that would be connected into a single logical sequence in which both ideas are necessary 400 years after his death.
Descartes’ certain truth (I think & I am) is in scientific circles referred to as “cogito ergo sum”, which is latin for:
- cognition (thinking)
- ergo = therefore
- sum = existence / I am.
I prefer to call it “I think & I am” though because it (especially the &-symbol) points out that they/there are two distinct conclusions – the logical pathways for deriving them are slightly different from one another.
Remember this as the word “distinction” because we’ll continue from that word when we return to this topic.
Chapter 2
I think & I am being derived as two distinct/separate statements through two distinct logical paths is quite abstract since some of the reasoning contains no pictures – the visual brainhalf is at some moments during the reasoning disengaged, making those parts of reasoning abstract. We’ll encounter much more abstract reasoning-pathways in this book, which is why it’s important to, in the beginning of the book, do reasoning about why some abstract reasonings are so hard to grasp that it took until the 21
st
century (me) to discover them.
As evolved animals we are made to maximize our re-arrangement of the natural, physical world for evolutionary benefits. We are not made to re-arrange the (non-existent; for superstitious people only) spiritual world. Nor are we made to deal with invisible mental objects – and we’ll deal with three of them – like glass windows. As long as we’ve had possessions we’ve had the ability to recognize if some possession was missing – we’ve had the cognitive system for spontaneously counting/seeing zero long before written symbols for numbers were invented. Written symbols for positive numbers were invented before the concept zero was invented. Zero, however, is one of those words which’s understanding shouldn’t conjure up any visuals. There can be plenty of linguistic explanation of features associated to the concept zero and one of them is that zer is non-visual (shouldn’t conjure up imaginations) meaning that the visuals we use for representing zero (such as the symbol 0) are just fingers pointing to a deeper tunderlying truth (which is invisible) – don’t look at the pointer/finger; but why does the brain have a hard time doing this? The simple answer is that we evolved to re-arrange the visible – we had no evolutionary benefits from the invisible.
It gets quite abstract, unintuitive and for said evolutionary reasons “unusual” (and civilized) when we’ll, later in this book, account for the explanation-based connections between three invisible (purely linguistic) ideas/concepts.
The reason why the message of this book is unintuitive (didn’t use to be an evolutionary benefit) and was discovered first in the 21
st
century has its explanation in the evolution & anatomy of the brain. Evolution and anatomy go hand in hand like history shapes architecture and intrastructure shapes history.
It’s worthwhile looking at which evolution+anatomy-explanation, other wthan “we evolved to deal with the visible world and thus feel awkward about the invisible”, explains our repulsion toward the abstract/invisible eventhough our logic proves that it is true – the idea of this book is much like algebra and we should now look at why, evolution-anatomically, require a while to get as comfortable as one can get to the invisible ideas of this book.
We have two major modalities for remembering/understanding/explaining things: the visual (sensory) and the linguistic (abstract). They cooperate to let the animal adapt to its environment (by, for example, making plans based on future predictions (which themselves are based on abstract and sensory memories)). Some things that the visual brainhalf can do the abstract can’t do and vice versa. Whichever brainhalf most efficiently and strongly accomplishes a task is utilized to make the animal competative in the chase for evolutionary benefits.
This cooperation and communication between the two differentrly specialized brainhalves is a function/mutation which arose because it gave evolutionary benefits. The genes that gave rise to this brainhalves-cooperating-function – which is based on either brainhalf specializing in either the visible or the invisible/abstract field of cognition – built on the earlier mutation/evolutionary benefit/trait of having a flexible (during the lifetime changing) part of the brain known as cortex.
The cortex first arose to “adapt the brain to the body” meaning that if the body mutated/got a birth defect/got injured/muscles got tired or weak, then still the animal could function to maximize evolutionary benefits despite its new bodily circumstances.
The brain adapting to the body, in case let’s say an injury to the body, gave the organism a Super Mario-like extra life/extra chance – for example a bird with a 50% weaker left wing than right wing could, because of the flexible cortex, know/learn/acknowledge its disposition and adapt tits behavior/muscular movements to counteract the disadvantages that would’ve came about if the animal didn’t have a cortex. For example a bird meant to fly straight (seeing a butterfly in front of it) with a 50% weaker left wing would’ve sent the same muscular-activation-signal to both wings, but due to the weakness of the left wing the bird would’ve
been flying counter-clockwise circles/faulty steering. With a small part of the bird’s brain that’s flexible i.e. able to learn, the saying “a cat has nine lives”
became more real. This is a major benefit from the rather small mutation of having a flexible middle-man in the feedback loop from and to the muscle. Parrots obviously have a flexible part of the brain since they can learn to mimic sounds, dating back the first cortex to sometime around when birds had become complex enough to mutate just a few cortical neurons in the right place. The virtue of the very nature/anatomy of cortical neurons is that even a couple of neurons can be wired so that they 1) sense 100% activation of both wings intended by the brain, 2) sense feedback from the wings telling that the left wing only flexed with 50% of its strength, and 3) either inhibit the right wing’s activation by 50% or increase the muscular excitement to the left wing so that it reaches 150% - in either case the feedback loop with the flexible middleman makes both wings flap equally (if the bird wants to fly straight) even if one wing is injured/mutated/weak.
That is the origin/dawn/beginning of the cortex and dates it back to about 100 million years ago.
Building, through mutation, on that earliest cortex simpy enlargening the cortex would’ve allowed the cortical cells to exhibit new benefitial traits. Remembering that adapting (the brain) not only to one’s body but to the external environment too is, like cats do, building a simple mental map of the objects in one’s environment and learning from experience what can and can’t be done with them.
It’s quite straight-forward that a larger cortex – tin the animals whom need cognitive adaptiation to the environment to reap maximum evolutionary benefits – is better.
Along the story of humanity we formed hierarchical groups (king, aristocrats and slaves) and at about the same time possessions (and thus the first encounter with an abstract invisible: “my thing is missing!”) became a part of the human story.
Speaking of possessions – specifically the ownership of intellectual property – the courses I’ve seen on anthropology, archeology and Big History all fail to mention that the capitalist drive of the biggest cortexed proto-human smarting his or her way to the top of (or upward in the) hierarchy led to
evolutionary pressures growing the cortex. The cortex with the most mass compared to its rival cortexes had 1) faster planning, 2) more memory and 3) more detailed social (personality) and environmental maps. Power-hungriness – the ambition to climb upward in the hierarchy – let to the cortex growing generation after generation.
Among many reasons, other than that the king orders his protectors/servants, is that females are attracted to the king because he commands the most resouces (especiallyu food-supply (which is necessary for maximizing any female’s number of offspring)). The most modern/civilized analogy/equivalent to a large food-supply is possession of ownership of intellectual property – in this case the fact that one of the world’s best archelogists/proto-human experts said that it is an explicit eunexplained mystery/question of science why the brain/cortex grew so very much during the latest era of burst-like brain-growth (the past 100 000 years). I like I said, claim that it was hierarchical upward mobility (and the king having the most babies) due to faster-, more accurate-, based on more memorized foundation- and predicting further into the future-planning (cortical abilities which correlated to the size of the cortex and which are more likely to elevate one, instead of lower one’s status, in the hierarchy). My claim that hierarchies made the cortex grow is intellectual property of my ownership.
The reasons for growth of the cortex illuminate what hkinds of thinking the brain dealt with and is made to deal with. There’s even negative incentives to think about the invisible (like zero): we base our reasoning off of and on our planning ability. In our plans we use the mediating concept “then” alot, just like we do in algebra (1+1=2 is much like 1+1 then 2) & argument. In arguments you set up premises that lead to (“then”) conclusions which in turn (“then”) become premises.
In evolution (and thus in the anatomy of our brains) sometimes plans had or resulted in a “???”-step; if some premise/step/conclusion in a plan was empty, this was our “symbol” (null) for considering the plan impossible, unfinished or not worthwhile committing as action.
Since reasoning about universal curriculum starting points like “I think & I am” and all the arguments between the start and fully explaining God/creation/the universe as 21
st
century science involves legitimate but invisible arguments (like zero), this book can feel like a plan in which one step was null/empty – and thus, despite verbal logic’s disagreement, the theory of brain-evolution predicts that the logic will feel like a plan gone wrong (or which is unfinished/faulty). The impossibility of making the steps of argument/logic in this book visual – and explicitly claiming that we’ll deal with three distinct but invisible (and thus looking the same & making the “plan” (upon which reasoning is based) feel faulty). What speaks against the feeling of “fault in the plan/reasoning”, though, are that:
the logic, eventhough triggering the feeling of “this is faulty/unfinished” by speaking of any of the invisible concepts, makes sense by being thorough logic, like solving equations, beginning from the premise/conclusion of Descartes’ certain truth.
It is possible to know the message of this book (including the three interconnected invisible ideas) without knowing or having chosen a specific curriculum for teaching the idaeas. The fact that many people can formulate the same ideas and logic between novel associations in practically infinitely many ways, and still be agreed upon and comprehendable by peers shows the disconnect between the (more or less universal) curriculum and the (unchanging) underlying
idea. The idea is the scientific world-view and there are unlimited ways to communicate/teach it. This scientific world-view is a new version, including
a full explanation of God, of something that has been developing as a continuation of the history of (the curious, map-making) cortex.
Because argument/reasoning/logic is based on and is planted in planning (re-arraning real-world objects), truth/validity is based on the visualizable (“if you see it (happening in the future or further on in logic) you’ll believe it”) and we’ll be listing the facts about three unseeable objects, and world-views/diagrams which explain the universe/a coordinate-system-based existential theory is based on cognitive maps of the geographical and social environment, we’re using old cognitive abilities basically used for surviving on the savannah to do abstract 21
st
century science. This is why 21
st
century science feels awkward/unintuitive/faulty etc eventhough the logic can be put on paper like the solution of an equation, each step be verified, no faults found and thus one can feel the uniquely modern discongruity/mismatch between what one can 100% certainly know to be true, and the emotion which comes from the mismatch between, for example, an abstract diagram-based map of Reality and the cognitive million year old simple map-making-ability in which the 21
st
century abstract “map”/diagram is rooted. We’re using old abilities/mechanisms to do new things, overcoming rules like “if you can’t see one step (but “only” know it linguistically) the plan/reasoning is lacking” – we can use the number zero but thinking about its meaning in “101” (no tens) gives an awkward feeling of “something went wrong” (eventhough civilizing/reasoning/understaning/logic can subdue the awkward “something-went-wrong-because-I-can’t-see-it”-feeling. Likewise I will state “you can’t see X because...” at least three times in this book, explicitly claiming that that logic at that point will feel unintuitive (eventhough it can be put on paper and make sense) unless the feeling is subdued by civilizing. The evolved traits like “can’t see it = it doesn’t make sense yet = give it up” are why no-one discovered the message of this book until the 21
st
century. Our frontier-pushing reasoning is like a plant planted in a foundation (evolved cognitive traits like “can’t see it = don’t believe it”) which is not very fertile for plants; if we are a plant, our roots have hit some poisons in the dirt. For 21
st
century reasoning, our brain as in obstacle course. We have some genetically-based cognitive hinderances for our universal reasoning.
Chapter 3
If we call the path that begins with “I think & I am” “path A”, since we have two equally legitimate starting points to the curriculum that explains God, we can call the other path/starting point “path B”.
Definitions: all the following are synonyms: Nothing, spacetime, 0, zero, emptiness,
non-existence,
the void...
It’s legitimate to ask “what preceded [nothing]?” because we are in a non-empty universe which is becoming emptier by the moment (this is a well-known fact among cosmologists & the accelerating expansion/emptying is called “dark energy”). It is not legitimate, however, to ask the other “why?”-question about Nothingness: even though Nothingness has a chronological cause (because our universe will become nothing again), it doesn’t have a cause-and-effect relationship other than the chronological one, making the question: “why was there nothingness (and don’t give the chronological answer!)?” illegitimate. Nothingness is a starting point in reasoning
- it warrants no prior justification; as Kant
would’ve said: it is the precondition in which everything happens: it is “a-priori” meaning none were prior to it in a meaningful cause-and-effect relationship because nothingness doesn’t exist.
What doesn’t exist denies the question: “why does it exist?” – it doesn’t! This makes Nothingness a valid starting point, path B, in a universal curriculum.
Nothingness and “I think & I am” are equally good starting points.
Asking “what is true about nothing?” or ”what is true in nothing?” is the starting point along path B of this universal curriculum.
One thing I usually say about nothingness is that it is emptier than we can imagine it as. Whatever your mind can produce, it’s still the mind producing it – we can’t escape the mind’s perspective i.e. its biological nature of everything it does (even when saying “nothing”) being neurons. Real nothingness is emptier than even our concept of nothingness.
The first order of business regarding this starting point was defining it, finding out why it’s universally considered a curriculum’s starting point and asking the most fundamental question about it: “what is true about/in it?”.
The sentence “having nothingness...” doesn’t make
intuitive
sense because “having” implies you have something of existence, but having non-existence as our starting-point and having asked a question about it, knowing that we asked a question about it, is where we’ll continue when we get back to path B – but first we’ll examine path A further: we have thinker, thought and distinction
(we listed two things, not one, and by doing so we’ve listed three things and thus can count three distinct things including distinction itself).
Path
C
Reality, by definition, is “that of which all is part”. A single word/concept of which all is part is the exact opposite of distinctiveness. We concluded that “certainly distinction exists” and we did so in a Reality of which all is part. We are playing around with both opposites: plurality (distinction) and singularity/monotheism (anti-distinction).
That Reality is one, could’ve been one starting point all by itself.
If we would’ve started with Reality – the most all-encompassing – then it would’ve led us to conclude path A (that we think & exist) and it could’ve led us to ask a question about nothingness.
If we would’ve taken “Reality is one” as a starting point, it would’ve opposed the starting point “there is distinction”. Usually our logic tells us that where there is opposition, there is fault in our reasoning – but this is obviously not true for considering the opposition between Reality (anti-distinction) and distinction. Both are legitimate words.
The conclusion from pondering them – the elongation of path A – is that the opposition is a reason for why Reality can’t be, as thinkers & thoughts do, conceived. We never see reality as one – if we did then Descartes’ distinction between observer and object wouldn’t be true anymore.
Reality can’t be seen/represented/observed/thought of fully/what-have-you because of the opposition between the starting points Reality is one and I think & I am (distinction vs. anti-distinction).
It is thus not a statement about the Platonic cave-metaphor where our maps don’t correspond with (i.e. maps are distinct from) the territory; this is a statement about the “access denied” given to all distinct observers (and all observers are by Descartes’ definition distinct) to Reality – it’s a fundamental opposition (between distinction and anti-distinction, us and Reality) which makes Reality not even represented if there were no limits to representation (because the very act of representing is distinctioning).
Regardeless of whether there are brains/computers to represent things (which, factually,
there must be because as brains we define what represents what), but even if representation could be, in a thought experiment, presumed to happen without us or computers - then still that representation couldn’t represent That of which all is part. This is a very subtle point which differentiates my way of not seeing Reality from Plato’s way of not seeing Reality – I put emphasis on the opposition between distinction and anti-distinction, Plato
noted that mental maps are not physical territories. Both ways of not seeing Reality are true and legitimate, but my way means more: it means that regardless of brains ever existing and “representation” being as loosely/vaguely defined by the universe as it can be in the universe, the distinction-anti-distinction-opposition still makes Reality infinitely much more than there can ever be to it. Let’s say that the part there is to it now represents “all of Reality” – then distinction-anti-distinction-opposition holds true and thus we get that there is more to Reality even than whatever was represented, no matter how it was represented.
So even if we say that however much there is to Reality may represent itself (Reality), then still the opposition between thinker & thought’s distinction holds true and causes an opposition with the also true oneness of reality (anti-distinction).
21
st
century science is supposed to be subtle. The conclusion, however, from all of this is that there is more to Reality than any representation (regardless of brains) can represent i.e. Reality is infinite. Exactly in which ways (size and time, energymass & spacetime) Reality is infinite we’ll consider in the continuation of this path A.
Though this seems like a lot of mental effort reading (the reason why it’s new is because it’s hard) but it is all necessary to lead up to an existential theory which includes all possible knowledge about God, and thus this book will have geopolitical impacts on conflicts.
Usually Nobel prizes are awarded for finding something new about some size in the (thank’s to me) proven-to-be infinite Reality – what about being the first one to prove that Reality in fact has infinitely much to it?
Path A (thinker & thought) and path C (Reality is 1 i.e. antidistinction) both lead us to conclude that there´s infinitely much to Reality because of the distinction-antidistinction-opposition.
It´s worthwhile pausing on a sentence like that like it was programming source-code because it contains unseeable concepts (distinction, antidistinction, their opposition) and the infinity of Reality.
If we confine on path B (nothingness) and the fact that we can ask questions about it, let´s ask:
- which laws of nature are inherent in nothingness? Which unavoidable truths are true because of the rational framework of nothingness? Which equations couldn´t
not
be true?
0=0 i.e. nothingness is itself should be true. Zero does not equal five nor does five equal two. We´ve thus found that mathematics is inherent to nothing i.e. in empty space a triangle is not a sphere and all other geometric truths hold true.
E=mc
2
is one of those true equations – Einstein´s most famous equation. All I need to know about this equation are the meaning of the five words:
energy
equals
mass
times
the speed of light
squared
.
“The speed of light squared” is a reference to spacetime because speed is distance (space) over time. This, in the equation mentioned spacetime, is connected to “energy equals mass” through the multiplication sign. “Energy equals mass” warrants the word “energymass”
as a synonym for Existence/the universe/”all movement, shining etc. (verbs) and the things that move, shine (nouns)”.
There are so many different explanation-traditions for E=mc
2
. Usually the practical real-world application-tradition overlaps with the mathematical tradition – theoretical physicists cooperate with experimental physicists. All I know about those explanatory views/intellectual traditions is that space (three dimensions) and time obviously are connected, warranting the word spacetime. But I also know that mass is made into energy in nuclear power plants and energy is made into mass in particle accelerators – these technologies prove that all energy equals mass and vice versa, warranting the word energymass. Energymass feels a lot like spacetime and is found in the same E=mc
2
-equation as spacetime. Energymass can be symbolized as
∞ - infinite existence while spacetime and 0 are synonyms.
Energymass (existence, ∞) and spacetime (zero, nothing) (and equations) is all there is to the universe/Reality. All the fundamental parts – the empty framework with its laws of nature and energymass –are in the same E=mc
2
equation. There´s nothing more to the cosmos than energymass & spacetime together (along with equations) and all of those parts are represented in one equation.
Since E=mc
2
is true in nothingness (like 0=0 is), we´ve reached “mentioning existence (starting point C)” from starting point B (nothing).
E=mc
2
being true at the very core of nothingness (like 0=0 is) tethers energymass (existence) to the very core of the framework. Existence is thus necessary if there is nothing (path B summons path C).
Existence (energymass) and non-existence are the core components of our Reality. They are connected and mutually interdependent as is shown in E=mc
2
. They are the space between and “behind/in” objects and the objects themselves, and all rules governing them – there´s nothing more necessary for a full explanation of energymasspacetime/Reality.
The more detailed description, coming from path A´s infinity of Reality, is that there is infinitely much energymasspacetime: the framework is infinite (spacetime is infinite) and what fills it is infinite (energymass/existence is).
The three paths have merged: path A (I think & I am, distinction) led to path C (there´s more to Reality than can be represented due to distinction-antidistinction-opposition) and path B led to defining Reality as energymasspacetime and making existence tethered to nothingness.
In the above sentence we have the seeds to:
- the chronological explanation with its infinite time-line, our universe acceleratingly emptying (observed fact) and nothingness having (laws of nature like E=mc
2
) existence (∞) tethered to it.
The “why existence?”-question – existence exists tethered to non-existence and only under those circumstances does it make sense for existence to exist.
Defining Reality as energymasspacetime (with the footnote from path A: that it is infinite (size-wise and time-wise)) and since it´s one and unseeable (due to distinction-antidistinction opposition) calling it God or monotheism. If you do not worship the grandest (that of which all is part) then I don´t know what you are worshipping.
We don´t need any other concepts than those we´ve gotten from the universal starting points:
Infinity of Reality (infinitely small, infinitely large and infinitely much time)
Reality defined as energymasspacetime i.e. we exist in nothing and therefore it makes sense for us to exist; infinite nothingness and infinite creation.
The monotheistic nature of Reality: distinction (us)-antidistinction (it) being opposites, making it (Reality) inaccessible for representation (for the thinker & thought-realm) i.e. there´s more to Reality than any representation can validly claim to represent.
An infinite size-range & time-range (infinite spacetime as Reality is energymasspacetime and infinite) of E=mc
2
´s existence-nonexistence-duality (energymasspacetime) and
distinction-antidistinction.
Infinite size-range; infinite time-range.
Of energymasspacetime (a synonym for Reality/God)
Distinction (separate entities; the infinitely many things) and anti-distinction (Reality is one) opposition (meaning it´s unintuitive but true – we didn´t evolve to consider “two simultaneous different ´events´ that co-exist/are the same” to be a valid reasoning).
The above three points stumble through the evolved mind´s obstacle course with its unseeabilities & abstract oppositions and is, taken as a whole, a full account for why we (and anything/Reality) exists.
An existential theory is a theory which explains any existing thing´s existence – the universally accepted existential theory has the 3 sub-ideas just listed. This makes it unintuitive/repulsive to our one-answer-seeking evolved logic, but all three sub-ideas are necessary and can´t be summarized into a smaller compartment than “infinite size & time with infinitely much spacetime (nothing) and infinitely much existence/energymass, and all of it contains distinction-antidistinction-opposition”.
How do we know that not something was left out? Let´s draw a size-time-diagram in which every coordinate is a location of energymasspacetime (a part of Reality) with infinity-symbols symbolizing infinite size and infinite time. Every object has some coordinate on this diagram and thus ever thing gets is explanation from this diagram.
All of this – three distinct starting points to paths which merge, the philosophy arising from and which is based on E=mc
2
, three sub-ideas that can´t be further summarized to the existential theory – all this makes for a very 21
st
century theory which´s unintuitiveness (rebellion against evolved logic´s norms) is the reason for why it wasn´t discovered until now. It will likely resemble a mental mess unless you rehearse it and subdue the pitfalls of evolved logic (like “opposites can´t both be true” or “the invisible is false”) using thorough argument.
All previous existential theories start from a single idea (like “God created…” or “the earth arose from an egg”) while my theory rests on three ideas and the curriculum teaching it has three starting points/paths.
The idea (existential theory), though, is true and is universal. It explains how, when the universe becomes nothing again (as it is observed to be becoming), path B shows that nothingness mentions existence and it would break laws of nature (would be absurd) if existene never came to be in a framework that mentions it in E=mc
2
. This coincides with the merging of paths A & C which state that the time-axis (Reality=energymasspace
time
) is infinite) is infinite. The conclusion being that there has been and will be infinitely many Big Bangs (which I´ll get a Nobel prize for discovering).
intro
Author
yonis
Posted on
03/03/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Text (12 pages)
Science 101
Author
yonis
Posted on
16/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Science 101
Posts navigation
Page
1
Page
2
…
Page
4
Next page
Search for:
Search
Recent Posts
Action thriller scifi book
Youtube comment
Humanisterna
Collection 15 3 2017
Plato and Socrates, God and Darwin
Recent Comments
Archives
March 2017
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
January 2016
Categories
Dagbok
Old
The book + diagrams
Trashcan
Trey
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.org
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Proudly powered by WordPress

Jonatan Mustonen – yonis1@gmail.com – Manuscript for sci-fi action thriller movie where the main character inputs science to the religiousphere
Skip to content
Jonatan Mustonen – yonis1@gmail.com
Manuscript for sci-fi action thriller movie where the main character inputs science to the religiousphere
Music for the sci-fi movie
Boze started a band named Sadistic Servant because he obeyed his power-urge, sarcastically saying “mister”, ignoring that he is a serving caregiver, sadistically taking every opportunity in dialogue to be authoritarian i.e. more powerful than his peer. He doesn´t have much power outside his band and is too uneducated to realize about himself that he is in a power-urge-state of mind. Luckily the internet provided alternative access to minds/thoughts. Being a servant pissed Boze off and thus he became a sadist power-grabbing in dialogue, say by mentioning his authority over The Toolkit which was an injection. He could say pretty much what he wanted, acting like a deranged king, and what he did say showed his very low status in real life – for example he burps in public, not having learned mutual respect over the smell- and auditory environment. Loud-voiced was he too. He kept his underlings at bay by frightening them into submission – submission to a burping, farting bum sadistically giving injection-needles like himself. His salary was his ruling through sadism, but the debt he gained was not to his conscience about those who felt pushed around by him, but instead his freedom to act at work as he acted at home. Bullies enjoy people fearing them – that is their salary; the debt they gain is that in order to feel powerful they need to, as little as possible, serve caretakingly. The more he served (which he thought was below his status) the more revengeful he became and was paid his salary through sadismizing those who he had served. I guess all people have a little bit of serving caregiver and ignorant sadist in them, but some more than others – serving and sadism are opposites and the environment in which a person dwells can push the balance to either one extreme or the other. Sadly, those who got pushed by their environment into 0 sadism and 100% servism changed environment quitting their job. Those whoms pendulum swinged more toward sadism finished work every day leaving all power at/to work, having no power at home – they longed back to work; back to the bleakness of power over fools whom one serves.
Talking to peers like they were unruly children, himself slopping like a dirtbag fiddleing thoughts which´s origin was not in anything appriciatable like science, poetry or music – even caregiving.
He thought he could raise his peers/subjects, steering them through his uncivilized non-educated mind “in the right direction”. But who would want to become what he has become? No-one. Yet he steers people, through his power over injections, into his sphere of influence i.e. path in life and his culture of using ambition to bully instead of using ambition to accomplish art. To him, the sword (or rather needle) was more powerful of a weapon to steer people into his cultural sphere of influence, than the pen. Him talking revealed that nothing of importance was going on in his mind – so why would anyone listen to what he has to say? Because he says them in an authoritarian high-power way, polluting the mind. The feedback loop of people fearing – and thus respecting – him led him to delusionally believe his way of life was right – that his thoughts were worth making the effort to utter – that they didn´t pollute the minds of others.
He contributed to his plans – the plans of steering others – from stereotypical simple thinking (thoughts not worth uttering). He had never met anyone unique and thus he didn´t see other paths in life than the typical “normal” ones.
He even tried to steer unique personalities/plans into his sphere of influence – a trash culture.
Sadistic Servant never became a successfull band eventhough their marketing was violent. Sadistic Servant is left out of the narrative/story of the thriller. It was just an anomaly – a blip on the radar screen that came and disappeared – in the big picture of things. Not helpful except in spurring the anxiety that makes creative people creative. He was a rule-abider who used his authoritarian loud voice to steer people – even unique such – into abiding the same rules that he abided. He obeyed his authorities – the law – and steered others toward the law, “the law” being made by an ignorant individual just like himself. It was like he was referring to himself; circular authority always pointing backwards in a loop. Infinity. He never broke out of his bubble – he was 60 years old and old dogs don´t learn new tricks.
I get that you use authority, banging your chest like King Kong but in talk and burps, once the situation is heated. So maybe his situation/mind-state was always heated, or he just used his bullyism in “inappropriate” relationships/situations: meaning all the time!
“Empty your mind – be formless, shapeless like water. If you put water into a cup it becomes the cup. You put water into a water, it becomes water. If you put water into a tea-cup it becomes the tea-cup. Now, water can flow or it can crash – be warned. The pen is water and is mightier than the muscle.”
Author
yonis
Posted on
01/04/2017
01/04/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Music for the sci-fi movie
New Trial By Fire
In my sci-fi novel, the main character (the villain) explodes an empty bridge (add futuristic special effects to the movie), develop dialogue and drama. But he blew up the bridge to say to the audience he entertains – to teach them science:
“
www.sizerange.com
-Empty your mind  by placing any and every idea in the space into which you´ve dedicated the concepts “one unseeable Reality (defined as “that of which all is part” or “anti-distinction”)”, vacuum (0, spacetime), and the self/soul (which you can´t separate yourself from).
– Everyone needs to be seen, unless one puts that urge for friendship into the above mentioned empty space so that one can circle it like a shark circling its prey, making descriptions as its trail in the ocean.
– There´s no central concept more important than the unseeable concepts / there´s no concept separate from Reality (“that of which all is part”), and therefore people who put concepts in the center focal point of attention (where the concept “Reality” sits) don´t think clearly. It´s our evolved urge for power which makes people put ideas/concepts/words into the empty mind-space called Reality – because they arrive and intonate certain words as conclusions eventhough they´re small-talk and there´s no firm conclusion EVER (except that it´s all part of the invisible Reality).”
Author
yonis
Posted on
01/04/2017
01/04/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on New Trial By Fire
Dagbok/diary 1 april 2017
If my scifi-action-thriller manuscript ( http://www.sizescale.com/2017/03/28/action-thriller-scifi-book/ ) gets made into a movie by me going to LA, the fact that my thriller-book accurately predicts the consequences of an economy in permanent decline (due to global warming + the end of oil) can aim people at solving the problem my book mainly deals with: religious sects (wanting nukes) vs. a rational secular west. By my scifi-action-manuscript succeeding, I can launch science into the religious sphere of influence (religiousphere).
Launching science into the religiousphere is more important than 15k and more important than even my mother´s emotions. She was slowing me down by not financing my creative productive writing. But now I got 15k, sadly having hurted my mom (but shown her that she should be dedicated to sciencing the religiousphere too), to spend in the USA. What should I do for 1 month? Maybe spend 3k.
Author
yonis
Posted on
01/04/2017
Categories
Dagbok
Leave a comment
on Dagbok/diary 1 april 2017
A
When life is in a crysis, know that it is unseeable i.e. all imaginations of it are wrong – it is invisible – “it” being babylon, babylon being society/the city. Why is babylon invisible? One cannot aim straight on the target (target=babylon) and hit it – one can only have accurate description (of the target) if one circles the target like a shark or hits the arrows everywhere around the target. Having one´s mind geared toward not putting any concept in the bullseye, but instead having reasonings surrounding the bullseye relieves the crysis and makes one think clearer. It is an anxiety-causer to always put ideas in the center bullseye – it makes one less of a thinker. Is it valid to think of the invisible bullseye and put one´s efforts into describing it around (like a shark circling)? Yes, for many reasons: Reality (that of which all is part) is the opposite of distinction and representation/observation is distinction – distinction “can´t see” anti-distinction. But the more important reason for why one should have one unseeable idea which one describes circling like a shark is what this unseeability does in the brain: allows one to not stop on “the most important idea/conclusion” but instead make a lot of circling description, allowing for longer reasoning. It´s a thinker´s toolkit – to have an unthinkable thought.
Focusing on unseeable ideas like the Oneness of Reality (energymasspacetime), vacuum (spacetime; 0) or the self (which can´t be seen because one cannot separate oneself from oneself) – or all three unseeable ideas at the same time  because they are a conglomeration – let´s one insert any idea (such as babylon (“the city”) or people/individuals) into the central bullseye (the spot occupied by the unseeabilities (Reality, vacuum, the self)).
First, during many years, training the mind to circle around an invisible idea (Reality, say) lets one put ideas like personalities/occupations/babylon as a whole into the invisible to be circled. This brain-training lets one describe further than ever before because one is prepared to circle forever instead of arrive at the bullseye.
(The mind putting any one idea as a  bullseye (non-invisible focal point) confuses i.e. distracts one from thinking in a scientific/universal way.)
Author
yonis
Posted on
31/03/2017
31/03/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on A
Music
All music on this youtube channel is really good.
Author
yonis
Posted on
29/03/2017
29/03/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Music
Action thriller scifi book
scifi book
There´s this internet worm, I won´t say its name. If you know its name you´ll get pulled toward opening it. If you open it you become a mindless zombie looking at its viral content.
The source code is known by hackers and gangsters in China, Russia etc and they use the worm to make you pay for internet content.
The main villain wants to infect everyone´s brains with it but there´s one cop who knows its name and pulls against the addiction to save humanity. They keep their locations secret from one another because they both fear one another. Media tried to report about the worm but only made the problem worse by getting unaddicted people to search for it. So nowdays media won´t report it.
The villain is like a tagging graphitti guy wanting everyone “to go through the wormhole” so that he can experiment with a new kind of nuke. One of these nukes can destroy a planet. He entertains people addicted to his internet content by wanting to blow things up. He needs to keep his fanbase addicted by making more spectacular stunts all the time. Once you watch his entertainment you realize he kindof graphitti tags his viral content with the secret name to make people look for it again.
In the first scene he jumps from a bridge and graphitti tags MS on top of a 5-letter word that connects to the word “… Bridge”. Before hitting the water he becomes a blue light that fades into invisibility/transparency as he plummits deep into the water – he has a backpack on his back with this invincibility shield in it that protects him from collisions by making a sphere of blue-hued energy around him. “If you grab 60% of the world´s resources and invest it into one guy´s gear, you get an invincibility shield, a jetpack, etc.” he said.
In 2050 it was 40 years after The Book had been published, the whole world had united around one world view, the author of the book had become the most famous and thus most powerful person in the world and ended the war in Syria by everyone siding on making it a US colony. That happened one year after ISIS had exploded their first nuke, killing 100 000 people in one instant. The nuclear terror attack made people look away from entertainment and they started studying instead, and as occurs
on all planets: their studies became more and more focused on one person´s teachings/philosophy. The problem was that he got all the fame in the world, and to uphold the people´s attention – whom´s attention first got to him by The Book mentioning the possibility of an internet worm that makes people addicted to googling for the secret keyword which the villain graphitti tags wherever he travels.
After the detonation of the first ISIS nuke, people in the west started getting interested in protecting themselves instead of being entertained. They found the best protection in learning and teaching science, to defeat the belief that God wrote the Quran (which is the main belief that drove ISIS to detonate the nuke).
Science disproved that God wrote the Quran, The Book made this clear. The whole western world united in knowing, studying and teaching The Book/The Theory, to defeat religious extremism which now was nuclear.
The villain had become foremost at spreading the internet worm – outcompeting russians and Chinese hackers and gangsters all around the world by connecting his worm´s name to The Book/The Theory which united the world. People became addicted to the villain´s entertainment once they saw the viral content his worm produced; the content itself was basically the villain using his technological and economic superiority to cause havoc and “do pranks” in the world. He didn´t try to
kill but sometimes people died – for the greater good of the whole world following his entertainment so they wouldn´t fight
eachother now that the economy was globally known to be in a permanent fall – oil had ended in 2040 and global warming had let the oceans swallow many major coastal cities in the world. 30% of the global population were refugees. Though united in world-view (and most in entertainment too: watching the villain), economic disparities still caused crime at levels unheard of during the earlier 100 years. Rich vs. poor was not an ideological conflict, unlike Religion vs. The Book. But religion, now nuclear, held
on and had become an isolationist clan which capitalized on its nuclear power to keep people from leaving their sect. Thus religion saved itself from scientific rationale. Scientific rationale dominated the west, but there was no way to spread The Book to
within ISIS/religious territory because of the religious´ nuclear threat toward the inland cities that were safe from global warming, like Las Vegas. But the oil crisis had made fueling the city a thing for the elite – you basically had to be worth no less than $10 million to have the standard of living which the 2010´s middle class enjoyed in 2010. Now that middle class was outside the megacities´ border walls, engulfed in violence, torn between joining nuclear sectarian religious sects or atheistically beliving in what´s certainly true, trying to uphold civilization and become rich enough to move into the megacities´ sphere of influence.
It´s ironic that entertainment made mankind ignore science until ISIS got nuclear parity with the superpowers (you just need one nuke to get that – because that’s enough to wipe out any city). The villain, being partly hero´ifyed by the western rational populations for having connections to the author of The Book (the science book which unified the world), needs to produce more entertainment all the time – more spectacular stunts – to stay in power; people get addicted to him by seeing his content (partly though the worm appearing on computers) and that drives him to try to gain more control over peoples´ minds. He supports the rational powers against the religious fanatics, but can only keep that power in grasp while people are entertained by his viral content. He needs to perform stunts – more spectacular every time (but no nuclear stunts against the religious because that´d make the religious destroy western megacities) – to keep people within the rational sphere of influence. It´s so easy to turn to religious sects in times of war, a forever declining economy and outrageous crime-levels – but the religious also offer a economic deal: “join us to be with the (though evil (but they don´t say that)) simple force that will win over the hard-won complex logical philosophy that the westerners use as their theory of everything”. The simple will win, is their motto. You can very
well imagine other planets become 100% religious, living under Quranic sharia law, because of the two forces pulling people toward religion: existential crisis over a hostile environment, and the argument that the simple (religious world-view) will outlast
the bleak scientific world-view. The religious stay in power by keeping The Book out of sight. The westerners try to get books to be read by the religious – and the villain agrees with this by trying to entertain as much as he can (given his economic superiority that comes from people paying for his internet content), through that entertainment getting into any religious person´s brain. But it´s hard to weave together entertainment with scientific philosophy – people will watch the entertaining bangs and skip over the critical thinking needed to get convinced. That´s the reason why the jihadists gained nuclear power in the first place, it´s the reason why the sect stays intact, it´s the reason why the planet is divided not only in rich and poor, but also in
a religious geopolitical sphere of influence and a bleakly rational sphere of influence – neither being able to militarily change their borders because of nuclear parity.
The gulf states had, eventhough being muslim at first and some rich kids even sending money to ISIS, joined the western sphere of influence while keeping a moderate muslim world-view compatible as
unfounded belief (based on that “God wrote the Quran”) joined together with the rational minimalistic world-view dominant in the west. How had
the gulf states been saved from joining the religious sect nuclearly enveloping half of the world? In 2020 the villain had just gained power by The Book becoming famous along with him, and by being the most famous person in the world he had, as a stunt (it seemed), legalized weed in the gulf states (and in the western world the populations later legalized in 2023 by democratic vote). Why did weed get legalized by the villain? The populations of countries, especially in the gulf states, were stuck in a propaganda loop where the state demonified cannabis, then the population of course, trusting the state´s anti-weed propaganda, wanted more measures (from the government) to control (prohibit) weed, and all the government did was make more propaganda gestures to further amplify the populations´ demands for more action by the government. It was a vicious circle that kept ignorance high and weed illegal. But as the villain got power by becoming famous he overruled the propaganda circle and just stated that weed is
now legal. His power made his word become law – imagine him as an Einstein times ten, but instead of writing a nuclear development recommendation for the USA in the 1930s-1940s, the villain, by being connected and mentioned in The (science) Book, was an Einstein times ten that wrote a weed-legalization recommendation. The propaganda circle between populous and state (where the population indirectly demanded more anti-weed propaganda by being scared from the previous round of propaganda) were involved was broken by one man´s order over-night. How does this connect to the religious nuclear issue? Weed-smoking gulf states joined forces between rich and poor, discussed The Book in depth and instituted the “stable” system that had always ruled USA: there´s no civil war (between a rich government and a large populous) and instead there was the situation that had always been in USA: poverty causing crime – but no civil war. Individualism prevented civil war in the gulf states by them adopting the US system economically, and they got individualism from the long thought-out discussions that weed promotes. Legalizing weed made their “king vs populous”-problem like that in the USA and their religious problem so that they kept moderate Islamic customs/traditions, they know their dogmas are unfounded, they even know that science disproves that Reality/God can author a book (the Quran) because…
The villain, working alone and with much of the world´s economy backing him by people paying for his entertainment, increased his stock (meaning he got more people to latch onto his entertainment) by jumping off of a bridge, graphitti tagging his prohibited entertainment channel´s name on the bridge, and using his invincibility shield protecting him from even getting wet when hitting
the water. This stunt the villain used to state a boring fact of science to his audience (whom had already read The Book where the basics of the world-changing science was explained): “God didn´t write the Quran because God is an energymasspacetime sizerange infinite toward the large, the small and in time – and this conglomeration of ideas (energymasspacetime sizerange) has both opposites of distinction and anti-distinction in it”. That sentence alone was enough to further weaken the religious stronghold,
eventhough the religious argued that the statement was bullshit and made no sense (a position they could uphold by having prevented The Book from entering the religious sphere of influence).
You´d think that since the entire western world agreed on the rational scientific theory, that it´d be assumed as true by the ISIS members too. But since it´s not in their sect´s economic interest to acknowledge to validity of The Book they did just like the Nazis did toward Einstein´s theory of relativity: “oh, it´s jew science!”. They dismissed it as being “not them” and thus wrong.
The villain, by his entertainment being internet content, then showed these pictures in his video:
Why did the villain create the internet worm which´s name is unknown/secret because it draws people to follow him, giving him power? He had failed at becoming famous from creating a universal animal with a universally engineered emotional repertoire. His goal first was to follow the utilitarian principle of “maximum happiness… for people” and so he used genetic research to insert emotions into a brain – emotions which evolution made unavailable to brains because evolution is only about maximizing survival and reproduction; evolution is not geared toward making a maximally happy animal (happiness-emotions) but humans are through genetic engineering.
The villain had succeeded in getting the financial resources needed to genetically engineer super-happy emotions into our emotional repertoire (our set of emotions), but being always in a super-happy state – lacking all negative emotions (even hunger) – made the “universal animals” passive, looking like komatozed vegetables. It didn’t impress the entertainment-seeking human audiences no matter how much the scientists behind the genetic engineering emphasized that “this is the animal other planets end up with too, by virtue of it being as happy as any brain in the universe can maximally be.” Not entertaining. That´s why the villain created a worm that goes from computer to computer, person to person, “infecting” them to watch the villain´s entertaining content on the internet – getting them addicted to paying more to the villain, who uses the money to create more spectacular entertainment i.e. do more spectacular stunts and finance more spectacular inventions for his own personal use.
Author
yonis
Posted on
28/03/2017
28/03/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
1 Comment
on Action thriller scifi book
Youtube comment
You’re gonna be big one day. Make a song about religions arising from thinking about distinction (there is thinker AND thought) and that there is anti-distinction (Reality is one; E=mc^2 means energymasspacetime), and we are in distinction’s realm when we observe/see (representation is distinction). The opposition between distinction and antidistinction (that we can’t see reality as a whole) means the size and time axises on a diagram are infinite. Everything happens because it has a reason in the larger, the smaller and in time. The falsity of religions is that this anti-distinction One Reality doesn’t write holy books because it’s just an infinite size-time-diagram of energymasspacetime and distinction&antidistinction – it’s not in such a thing’s nature to write a Quran.
Author
yonis
Posted on
24/03/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Youtube comment
Humanisterna
1
The universal text
I can tell you everything about God. This book won’t be a commentary on any holy book though; it won’t be in the tradition of interpretation of dogmas, sagas and mysteries. It won’t be a mystic’s spiritual book which disengages the rational analytical mind. Instead I’ll tell you everything about God in the tradition that Einstein and philosophers belonged to. It will be an algebra-like linguistic relationship-between-symbols (with just two visuals) analysis of what’s true.
I can tell you everything about God in the rational tradition – but before you think this will be an atheistic refutation of God, I might aswell reveal beforehand that God & Soul are legitimate concepts and we’ll discover their rational roots tens of thousands of years ago in this book. There is a natural narrative i.e. logical cohesion from step to step in the anatomy/history of the brain that leads up to the invention of God & Soul. The mind-processes/conscious abilities which result in God & Soul being realized and thus the ideas getting an impact on the world are utilized by simple means – it is relatively easy to just stumble upon God as an idea. This is why God & Soul date back to caveman days – they’re one of the earliest artifacts of civilization: like the spear.
To tell you everything about God I should do semantics i.e. define what I mean by the word God. I won’t mention dogmas other than The Golden Rule (do onto others like you’d want them to do onto you) not rituals other than showing universal scientific symbols (like the figures in this book) – what I’ll tell you about God will be rational/abstract/theoretical and not some pretext for following one culture’s dogmas/rituals over the other 10 000 religions’ dogmas/rituals.
I’ll show you how to for yourself figure out what God is, instead of turn you to any particular raising-paradigm/holy book.
There are three groups of people:
The intellectuals who are life-long learners learning for learning’s sake; the readers who are curious for the joy of answers and read for reading’s sake.
Those who see some reason to read/learn. I’ll tell you that the reason for making the arguments in this book popular is because almost every single war/conflict in today’s world is God-related. Knowing this book shows solidarity toward soldiers (if it’s a religious war) – teaching the idea that this book teaches can save soldiers’ lives. There is the moral argument that “it is more moral to drink & drive than to not save soldiers’ lives by helping make a book/idea popular”. If made popular, this book can make ISIS desintegrate and plunge into a civil war because nothing no longer binds them together in large a group (like “the kaliphate/the Quran/their god does).
Those who are not intellectuals/readers nor do they show solidarity toward everyone negatively impacted by misinterpretations of religions.
The name of this book hints at that I’ll try to write as closely as possible to what all revalations claimed to be: universal i.e. applicable to everyone. I’ll try to make the sequence of logic i.e. arguments i.e. what’s akin to an equation as universal as possible, meaning it can be figured out / derived no matter who or where one is. The implications of this is that this semi-revalation sequence-of-argument/logic is derived from the same Source identically on every human-like-life bearing planet in this infinite universe. This is why I call this text “The First Universal Text” preassuming the footnote that this text marks the beginning of a new intellectual tradition which is defined by its mission: to write universally. The idea in this book can be told in many less universal ways (which are maybe 0.001% of how the idea is “usually” (in the infinite universe) taught), but I’ll try to aim for the 99% usuality of how the idea is usually taught i.e. how the curriculum meta to the idea is designed. How do you design the curriculum – when a million different curriculums are possible and result in the readers learning the same idea – to be as universal as possible?
Instead of teaching the idea/science in a random order, can we derive from logic some starting points for the course (making the curriculum universal)? Yes: two starting points stand out akin to that it is logical to teach history chronologically; the two starting points for understanding God/creation/the universe are Nothingness & “I think & I am”.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
The first order of business is defining the starting points along the “Nothingness”-path & the “I think & I am” path.
Everyone spontaneously believes that he/she exists & that he/she thinks thoughts, but a man
figured this out
in the 1600s. He asked: “what in an allmighty demon would be fooling me in everything I can be fooled at/in?” What remains? Allmighty fooler on a mission to fool completely in everything.
He figured out “I exist” because there is a self necessary for a/that self to be fooled.
As a distinct line of reasoning he figured out that “being fooled is [thinking/a thought-process]”, in other words that thought exists as certainly as the self.
That is the starting point on the “I think & I exist”-path.
The man who figured this out in the 1600s, Descartes, didn’t do it to make a joke abour proving scientifically the most obvious, but he knew he had discovered a globally understandable starting point
with much significance for religious conflicts. Descartes was invited to live at the queen of Sweden’s castle because of his creative rational thinking. He also invented the coordinate system ( x & y axis) to contribute to mathematics’ intellectual tradition. In this book we’ll reach Descartes’ coordinate-system invention (with size on the y-axis and time on the x-axis as the size-time diagram into which every object fits in as a coordinate) from Descartes’ “I think & BI am”-invention; the two are connected in logic but were not historically connected/associated together until I did it (400 years after Descartes invented both things).
How can you verify that what I said right now is true? I stated a historical claim about the non-associatedness of two ideas (invented by one and the same thinker). Unless you’re a history-of-science intellectual-tradition-historian you’d have a hard time verifying my claim of me deserving a prize for adding the logic that connects “I think & I am” to mathematics’ coordinate system (and the size-time diagram more specifically). Luckily the best university professors in sciences’ intellectual history are available on the internet (The Great Courses.com) and they go specifically into this topic in the “Philosophy of Mind” and “History of Science” courses – and since the best professors mention Descartes’ two ideas in one breath but not the connection between them in a 40-lecture course, you know that not even the best current minds know the connection i.e. I’ve invented something new (which is the logic that binds the two ideas together). It is fascinating, though, that one man (Descartes) invented two ideas that would be connected into a single logical sequence in which both ideas are necessary 400 years after his death.
Descartes’ certain truth (I think & I am) is in scientific circles referred to as “cogito ergo sum”, which is latin for:
- cognition (thinking)
- ergo = therefore
- sum = existence / I am.
I prefer to call it “I think & I am” though because it (especially the &-symbol) points out that they/there are two distinct conclusions – the logical pathways for deriving them are slightly different from one another.
Remember this as the word “distinction” because we’ll continue from that word when we return to this topic.
Chapter 2
I think & I am being derived as two distinct/separate statements through two distinct logical paths is quite abstract since some of the reasoning contains no pictures – the visual brainhalf is at some moments during the reasoning disengaged, making those parts of reasoning abstract. We’ll encounter much more abstract reasoning-pathways in this book, which is why it’s important to, in the beginning of the book, do reasoning about why some abstract reasonings are so hard to grasp that it took until the 21
st
century (me) to discover them.
As evolved animals we are made to maximize our re-arrangement of the natural, physical world for evolutionary benefits. We are not made to re-arrange the (non-existent; for superstitious people only) spiritual world. Nor are we made to deal with invisible mental objects – and we’ll deal with three of them – like glass windows. As long as we’ve had possessions we’ve had the ability to recognize if some possession was missing – we’ve had the cognitive system for spontaneously counting/seeing zero long before written symbols for numbers were invented. Written symbols for positive numbers were
invented before the concept zero was invented. Zero, however, is one of those words which’s understanding shouldn’t conjure up any visuals. There can be plenty of linguistic explanation of features associated to the concept zero and one of them is that zer is non-visual (shouldn’t conjure up imaginations) meaning that the visuals we use for representing zero (such as the symbol 0) are just fingers pointing to a deeper tunderlying truth (which is invisible) – don’t look at the pointer/finger; but why does the brain have a hard time doing this? The simple answer is that we evolved to re-arrange the visible – we had no evolutionary benefits from the invisible.
It gets quite abstract, unintuitive and for said evolutionary reasons “unusual” (and civilized) when we’ll, later in this book, account for the explanation-based connections between three invisible (purely linguistic) ideas/concepts.
The reason why the message of this book is unintuitive (didn’t use to be an evolutionary benefit) and was discovered first in the 21
st
century has its explanation in the evolution & anatomy of the brain. Evolution and anatomy go hand in hand like history shapes architecture and intrastructure shapes history. It’s worthwhile looking at which evolution+anatomy-explanation, other wthan “we evolved to deal with the visible world and thus feel awkward about the invisible”, explains our repulsion toward the abstract/invisible eventhough our logic proves that it is true – the idea of this book is much like algebra and we should now look at why, evolution-anatomically, require a while to get as comfortable as one can get to the invisible ideas of this book.
We have two major modalities for remembering/understanding/explaining things: the visual (sensory) and the linguistic (abstract). They cooperate to let the animal adapt to its environment (by, for example, making plans based on future predictions (which themselves are based on abstract and sensory memories)). Some things that the visual brainhalf can do the abstract can’t do and vice versa. Whichever brainhalf most efficiently and strongly accomplishes a task is utilized to make the animal competative in the chase for evolutionary benefits.
This cooperation and communication between the two differentrly specialized brainhalves is a function/mutation which arose because it gave evolutionary benefits. The genes that gave rise to this brainhalves-cooperating-function – which is based on either brainhalf specializing in either the visible or the invisible/abstract field of cognition – built on the earlier mutation/evolutionary benefit/trait of having a flexible (during the lifetime changing) part of the brain known as cortex.
The cortex first arose to “adapt the brain to the body” meaning that if the body mutated/got a birth defect/got injured/muscles got tired or weak, then still the animal could function to maximize evolutionary benefits despite its new bodily circumstances. The brain adapting to the body, in case let’s say an injury to the body, gave the organism a Super Mario-like extra life/extra chance – for example a bird with a 50% weaker left wing than right wing could, because of the flexible cortex, know/learn/acknowledge its disposition and adapt tits behavior/muscular movements to counteract the disadvantages that would’ve came about if the animal didn’t have a cortex. For example a bird meant to fly straight (seeing a butterfly in front of it) with a 50% weaker left wing would’ve sent the same muscular-activation-signal to both wings, but due to the weakness of the left wing the bird would’ve been flying counter-clockwise circles/faulty steering. With a small part of the bird’s brain that’s flexible i.e. able to learn, the saying “a cat has nine lives” became more real. This is a major benefit from the rather small mutation of having a flexible middle-man in the feedback loop from and to the muscle. Parrots obviously have a flexible part of the brain since they can learn to mimic sounds, dating back the
first cortex to sometime around when birds had become complex enough to mutate just a few cortical neurons in the right place. The virtue of the very nature/anatomy of cortical neurons is that even a couple of neurons can be wired so that they 1) sense 100% activation of both wings intended by the brain, 2) sense feedback from the wings telling that the left wing only flexed with 50% of its strength, and 3) either inhibit the right wing’s activation by 50% or increase the muscular excitement to the left wing so that it reaches 150% - in either case the feedback loop with the flexible middleman makes both wings flap equally (if the bird wants to fly straight) even if one wing is injured/mutated/weak.
That is the origin/dawn/beginning of the cortex and dates it back to about 100 million years ago.
Building, through mutation, on that earliest cortex simpy enlargening the cortex would’ve allowed the cortical cells to exhibit new benefitial traits. Remembering that adapting (the brain) not only to one’s body but to the external environment too is, like cats do, building a simple mental map of the objects in one’s environment and learning from experience what can and can’t be done with them.
It’s quite straight-forward that a larger cortex – tin the animals whom need cognitive adaptiation to the environment to reap maximum evolutionary benefits – is better.
Along the story of humanity we formed hierarchical groups (king, aristocrats and slaves) and at about the same time possessions (and thus the first encounter with an abstract invisible: “my thing is missing!”) became a part of the human story.
Speaking of possessions – specifically the ownership of intellectual property – the courses I’ve seen on anthropology, archeology and Big History all fail to mention that the capitalist drive of the biggest cortexed proto-human smarting his or her way to the top of (or upward in the) hierarchy led to evolutionary pressures growing the cortex. The cortex with the most mass compared to its rival cortexes had 1) faster planning, 2) more memory and 3) more detailed social (personality) and environmental maps. Power-hungriness – the ambition to climb upward in the hierarchy – let to the cortex growing generation after generation. Among many reasons, other than that the king orders his protectors/servants, is that females are attracted to the king because he commands the most resouces (especiallyu food-supply (which is necessary for maximizing any female’s number of offspring)). The most modern/civilized analogy/equivalent to a large food-supply is possession of ownership of intellectual property – in this case the fact that one of the world’s best archelogists/proto-human experts said that it is an explicit eunexplained mystery/question of science why the brain/cortex grew so very much during the latest era of burst-like brain-growth (the past 100 000 years). I like I said, claim that it was hierarchical upward mobility (and the king having the most babies) due to faster-, more accurate-, based on more memorized foundation- and predicting further into the future-planning (cortical abilities which correlated to the size of the cortex and which are more likely to elevate one, instead of lower one’s status, in the hierarchy). My claim that hierarchies made the cortex grow is intellectual property of my ownership.
The reasons for growth of the cortex illuminate what hkinds of thinking the brain dealt with and is made to deal with. There’s even negative incentives to think about the invisible (like zero): we base our reasoning off of and on our planning ability. In our plans we use the mediating concept “then” alot, just like we do in algebra (1+1=2 is much like 1+1 then 2) & argument. In arguments you set up premises that lead to (“then”) conclusions which in turn (“then”) become premises.
In evolution (and thus in the anatomy of our brains) sometimes plans had or resulted in a “???”-step; if some premise/step/conclusion in a plan was empty, this was our “symbol” (null) for considering the plan impossible, unfinished or not worthwhile committing as action.
Since reasoning about universal curriculum starting points like “I think & I am” and all the arguments between the start and fully explaining God/creation/the universe as 21
st
century science involves legitimate but invisible arguments (like zero), this book can feel like a plan in which one step was null/empty – and thus, despite verbal logic’s disagreement, the theory of brain-evolution predicts that the logic will feel like a plan gone wrong (or which is unfinished/faulty). The impossibility of making the steps of argument/logic in this book visual – and explicitly claiming that we’ll deal with three distinct but invisible (and thus looking the same & making the “plan” (upon which reasoning is based) feel faulty). What speaks against the feeling of “fault in the plan/reasoning”, though, are that:
the logic, eventhough triggering the feeling of “this is faulty/unfinished” by speaking of any of the invisible concepts, makes sense by being thorough logic, like solving equations, beginning from the premise/conclusion of Descartes’ certain truth.
It is possible to know the message of this book (including the three interconnected invisible ideas) without knowing or having chosen a specific curriculum for teaching the idaeas. The fact that many people can formulate the same ideas and logic between novel associations in practically infinitely many ways, and still be agreed upon and comprehendable by peers shows the disconnect between the (more or less universal) curriculum and the (unchanging) underlying idea. The idea is the scientific world-view and there are unlimited ways to communicate/teach it. This scientific world-view is a new version, including a full explanation of God, of something that has been developing as a continuation of the history of (the curious, map-making) cortex.
Because argument/reasoning/logic is based on and is planted in planning (re-arraning real-world objects), truth/validity is based on the visualizable (“if you see it (happening in the future or further on in logic) you’ll believe it”) and we’ll be listing the facts about three unseeable objects, and world-views/diagrams which explain the universe/a coordinate-system-based existential theory is based on cognitive maps of the geographical and social environment, we’re using old cognitive abilities basically used for surviving on the savannah to do abstract 21
st
century science. This is why 21
st
century science feels awkward/unintuitive/faulty etc eventhough the logic can be put on paper like the solution of an equation, each step be verified, no faults found and thus one can feel the uniquely modern discongruity/mismatch between what one can 100% certainly know to be true, and the emotion which comes from the mismatch between, for example, an abstract diagram-based map of Reality and the cognitive million year old simple map-making-ability in which the 21
st
century abstract “map”/diagram is rooted. We’re using old abilities/mechanisms to do new things, overcoming rules like “if you can’t see one step (but “only” know it linguistically) the plan/reasoning is lacking” – we can use the number zero but thinking about its meaning in “101” (no tens) gives an awkward feeling of “something went wrong” (eventhough civilizing/reasoning/understaning/logic can subdue the awkward “something-went-wrong-because-I-can’t-see-it”-feeling. Likewise I will state “you can’t see X because...” at least three times in this book, explicitly claiming that that logic at that point will feel unintuitive (eventhough it can be put on paper and make sense) unless the feeling is subdued by civilizing. The evolved traits like “can’t see it = it doesn’t make sense yet = give it up” are why no-one discovered the message of this book until the 21
st
century. Our frontier-pushing reasoning is like a plant planted in a foundation (evolved cognitive
traits like “can’t see it = don’t believe it”) which is not very fertile for plants; if we are a plant, our roots have hit some poisons in the dirt. For 21
st
century reasoning, our brain as in obstacle course. We have some genetically-based cognitive hinderances for our universal reasoning.
Chapter 3
If we call the path that begins with “I think & I am” “path A”, since we have two equally legitimate starting points to the curriculum that explains God, we can call the other path/starting point “path B”.
Definitions: all the following are synonyms: Nothing, spacetime, 0, zero, emptiness, non-existence, the void...
It’s legitimate to ask “what preceded [nothing]?” because we are in a non-empty universe which is becoming emptier by the moment (this is a well-known fact among cosmologists & the accelerating expansion/emptying is called “dark energy”). It is not legitimate, however, to ask the other “why?”-question about Nothingness: even though Nothingness has a chronological cause (because our universe will become nothing again), it doesn’t have a cause-and-effect relationship other than the chronological one, making the question: “why was there nothingness (and don’t give the chronological answer!)?” illegitimate. Nothingness is a starting point in reasoning
- it warrants no prior justification; as Kant would’ve said: it is the precondition in which everything happens: it is “a-priori” meaning none were prior to it in a meaningful cause-and-effect relationship because nothingness doesn’t exist. What doesn’t exist denies the question: “why does it exist?” – it doesn’t! This makes Nothingness a valid starting point, path B, in a universal curriculum. Nothingness and “I think & I am” are equally good starting points. Asking “what is true about nothing?” or ”what is true in nothing?” is the starting point along path B of this universal curriculum.
One thing I usually say about nothingness is that it is emptier than we can imagine it as. Whatever your mind can produce, it’s still the mind producing it – we can’t escape the mind’s perspective i.e. its biological nature of everything it does (even when saying “nothing”) being neurons. Real nothingness is emptier than even our concept of nothingness.
The first order of business regarding this starting point was defining it, finding out why it’s universally considered a curriculum’s starting point and asking the most fundamental question about it: “what is true about/in it?”. The sentence “having nothingness...” doesn’t make intuitive sense because “having” implies you have something of existence, but having non-existence as our starting-point and having asked a question about it, knowing that we asked a question about it, is where we’ll continue when we get back to path B – but first we’ll examine path A further: we have thinker, thought and distinction (we listed two things, not one, and by doing so we’ve listed three things and thus can count three distinct things including distinction itself).
Path C
Reality, by definition, is “that of which all is part”. A single word/concept of which all is part is the exact opposite of distinctiveness. We concluded that “certainly distinction exists” and we did so in a Reality of which all is part. We are playing around with both opposites: plurality (distinction) and singularity/monotheism (anti-distinction). That Reality is one, could’ve been one starting point all by itself. If we would’ve started with Reality – the most all-encompassing – then it would’ve led us to conclude path A (that we think & exist) and it could’ve led us to ask a question about nothingness. If we would’ve taken “Reality is one” as a starting point, it would’ve opposed the starting point “there is distinction”. Usually our logic tells us that where there is opposition, there is fault in our reasoning – but
this is obviously not true for considering the opposition between Reality (anti-distinction) and distinction. Both are legitimate words. The conclusion from pondering them – the elongation of path A – is that the opposition is a reason for why Reality can’t be, as thinkers & thoughts do, conceived. We never see reality as one – if we did then Descartes’ distinction between observer and object wouldn’t be true anymore. Reality can’t be seen/represented/observed/thought of fully/what-have-you because of the opposition between the starting points Reality is one and I think & I am (distinction vs. anti-distinction). It is thus not a statement about the Platonic cave-metaphor where our maps don’t correspond with (i.e. maps are distinct from) the territory; this is a statement about the “access denied” given to all distinct observers (and all observers are by Descartes’ definition distinct) to Reality – it’s a fundamental opposition (between distinction and anti-distinction, us and Reality) which makes Reality not even represented if there were no limits to representation (because the very act of representing is distinctioning). Regardeless of whether there are brains/computers to represent things (which, factually, there must be because as brains we define what represents what), but even if representation could be, in a thought experiment, presumed to happen without us or computers - then still that representation couldn’t represent That of which all is part. This is a very subtle point which differentiates my way of not seeing Reality from Plato’s way of not seeing Reality – I put emphasis on the opposition between distinction and anti-distinction, Plato noted that mental maps are not physical territories. Both ways of not seeing Reality are true and legitimate, but my way means more: it means that regardless of brains ever existing and “representation” being as loosely/vaguely defined by the universe as it can be in the universe, the distinction-anti-distinction-opposition still makes Reality infinitely much more than there can ever be to it. Let’s say that the part there is to it now represents “all of Reality” – then distinction-anti-distinction-opposition holds true and thus we get that there is more to Reality even than whatever was represented, no matter how it was represented. So even if we say that however much there is to Reality may represent itself (Reality), then still the opposition between thinker & thought’s distinction holds true and causes an opposition with the also true oneness of reality (anti-distinction).
21
st
century science is supposed to be subtle. The conclusion, however, from all of this is that there is more to Reality than any representation (regardless of brains) can represent i.e. Reality is infinite. Exactly in which ways (size and time, energymass & spacetime) Reality is infinite we’ll consider in the continuation of this path A. Though this seems like a lot of mental effort reading (the reason why it’s new is because it’s hard) but it is all necessary to lead up to an existential theory which includes all possible knowledge about God, and thus this book will have geopolitical impacts on conflicts. Usually Nobel prizes are awarded for finding something new about some size in the (thank’s to me) proven-to-be infinite Reality – what about being the first one to prove that Reality in fact has infinitely much to it?
Path A (thinker & thought) and path C (Reality is 1 i.e. antidistinction) both lead us to conclude that there´s infinitely much to Reality because of the distinction-antidistinction-opposition.
It´s worthwhile pausing on a sentence like that like it was programming source-code because it contains unseeable concepts (distinction, antidistinction, their opposition) and the infinity of Reality.
If we confine on path B (nothingness) and the fact that we can ask questions about it, let´s ask:
- which laws of nature are inherent in nothingness? Which unavoidable truths are true because of the rational framework of nothingness? Which equations couldn´t
not
be true?
0=0 i.e. nothingness is itself should be true. Zero does not equal five nor does five equal two. We´ve thus found that mathematics is inherent to nothing i.e. in empty space a triangle is not a sphere and all other geometric truths hold true.
E=mc
2
is one of those true equations – Einstein´s most famous equation. All I need to know about this equation are the meaning of the five words:
energy
equals
mass
times
the speed of light
squared
.
“The speed of light squared” is a reference to spacetime because speed is distance (space) over time. This, in the equation mentioned spacetime, is connected to “energy equals mass” through the multiplication sign. “Energy equals mass” warrants the word “energymass” as a synonym for Existence/the universe/”all movement, shining etc. (verbs) and the things that move, shine (nouns)”.
There are so many different explanation-traditions for E=mc
2
. Usually the practical real-world application-tradition overlaps with the mathematical tradition – theoretical physicists cooperate with experimental physicists. All I know about those explanatory views/intellectual traditions is that space (three dimensions) and time obviously are connected, warranting the word spacetime. But I also know that mass is made into energy in nuclear power plants and energy is made into mass in particle accelerators – these technologies prove that all energy equals mass and vice versa, warranting the word energymass. Energymass feels a lot like spacetime and is found in the same E=mc
2
-equation as spacetime. Energymass can be symbolized as ∞ - infinite existence while spacetime and 0 are synonyms.
Energymass (existence, ∞) and spacetime (zero, nothing) (and equations) is all there is to the universe/Reality. All the fundamental parts – the empty framework with its laws of nature and energymass –are in the same E=mc
2
equation. There´s nothing more to the cosmos than energymass & spacetime together (along with equations) and all of those parts are represented in one equation.
Since E=mc
2
is true in nothingness (like 0=0 is), we´ve reached “mentioning existence (starting point C)” from starting point B (nothing).
E=mc
2
being true at the very core of nothingness (like 0=0 is) tethers energymass (existence) to the very core of the framework. Existence is thus necessary if there is nothing (path B summons path C).
Existence (energymass) and non-existence are the core components of our Reality. They are connected and mutually interdependent as is shown in E=mc
2
. They are the space between and “behind/in” objects and the objects themselves, and all rules governing them – there´s nothing more necessary for a full explanation of energymasspacetime/Reality.
The more detailed description, coming from path A´s infinity of Reality, is that there is infinitely much energymasspacetime: the framework is infinite (spacetime is infinite) and what fills it is infinite (energymass/existence is).
The three paths have merged: path A (I think & I am, distinction) led to path C (there´s more to Reality than can be represented due to distinction-antidistinction-opposition) and path B led to defining Reality as energymasspacetime and making existence tethered to nothingness.
In the above sentence we have the seeds to:
- the chronological explanation with its infinite time-line, our universe acceleratingly emptying (observed fact) and nothingness having (laws of nature like E=mc
2
) existence (∞) tethered to it.
The “why existence?”-question – existence exists tethered to non-existence and only under those circumstances does it make sense for existence to exist.
Defining Reality as energymasspacetime (with the footnote from path A: that it is infinite (size-wise and time-wise)) and since it´s one and unseeable (due to distinction-antidistinction
opposition) calling it God or monotheism. If you do not worship the grandest (that of which all is part) then I don´t know what you are worshipping.
We don´t need any other concepts than those we´ve gotten from the universal starting points:
Infinity of Reality (infinitely small, infinitely large and infinitely much time)
Reality defined as energymasspacetime i.e. we exist in nothing and therefore it makes sense for us to exist; infinite nothingness and infinite creation.
The monotheistic nature of Reality: distinction (us)-antidistinction (it) being opposites, making it (Reality) inaccessible for representation (for the thinker & thought-realm) i.e. there´s more to Reality than any representation can validly claim to represent.
An infinite size-range & time-range (infinite spacetime as Reality is energymasspacetime and infinite) of E=mc
2
´s existence-nonexistence-duality (energymasspacetime) and distinction-antidistinction.
Infinite size-range; infinite time-range.
Of energymasspacetime (a synonym for Reality/God)
Distinction (separate entities; the infinitely many things) and anti-distinction (Reality is one) opposition (meaning it´s unintuitive but true – we didn´t evolve to consider “two simultaneous different ´events´ that co-exist/are the same” to be a valid reasoning).
The above three points stumble through the evolved mind´s obstacle course with its unseeabilities & abstract oppositions and is, taken as a whole, a full account for why we (and anything/Reality) exists.
An existential theory is a theory which explains any existing thing´s existence – the universally accepted existential theory has the 3 sub-ideas just listed. This makes it unintuitive/repulsive to our one-answer-seeking evolved logic, but all three sub-ideas are necessary and can´t be summarized into a smaller compartment than “infinite size & time with infinitely much spacetime (nothing) and infinitely much existence/energymass, and all of it contains distinction-antidistinction-opposition”.
How do we know that not something was left out? Let´s draw a size-time-diagram in which every coordinate is a location of energymasspacetime (a part of Reality) with infinity-symbols symbolizing infinite size and infinite time. Every object has some coordinate on this diagram and thus ever thing gets is explanation from this diagram.
All of this – three distinct starting points to paths which merge, the philosophy arising from and which is based on E=mc
2
, three sub-ideas that can´t be further summarized to the existential theory – all this makes for a very 21
st
century theory which´s unintuitiveness (rebellion against evolved logic´s norms) is the reason for why it wasn´t discovered until now. It will likely resemble a mental mess unless you rehearse it and subdue the pitfalls of evolved logic (like “opposites can´t both be true” or “the invisible is false”) using thorough argument.
All previous existential theories start from a single idea (like “God created…” or “the earth arose from an egg”) while my theory rests on three ideas and the curriculum teaching it has three starting points/paths.
The idea (existential theory), though, is true and is universal. It explains how, when the universe becomes nothing again (as it is observed to be becoming), path B shows that nothingness mentions existence and it would break laws of nature (would be absurd) if existene never came to be in a framework that mentions it in E=mc
2
. This coincides with the merging of paths A & C which state that the time-axis (Reality=energymasspace
time
) is infinite) is infinite. The conclusion being that there has been and will be infinitely many Big Bangs (which I´ll get a Nobel prize for discovering).
In this book I’ve explained that God (being a synonym for Reality) is an “infinite size-time-diagram of energymasspacetime at every coordinate and distinction-antidistinction-opposition”. It is a full-fledged theory of what constitutes Reality. Having understood this text makes it impossible to believe in a revelation-giving God that picks sides in wars like Trump’s God or ISIS’ God.<
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen, Sweden
The First Universal Text
Advancing civilzation to end religious conflict
To help & show solidarity toward soldiers...
They´re fighting religious wars where the assumption of a small minority calling themselves muslims is that God created earth & gave a violent revalation to prophet Muhammed...
If another theory is proposed to explain why Reality was created & how/why humans came to exist, then the violent revalation & holy war end.
The course which teaches this must be as a universal curriculum designed to maximally convince. It appeals both of the motivations of helping soldiers and to learning for learning’s sake (being an intellectual).
It has two starting points:
certain truth (agreement on that we think & we exist)
Nothing (which “doesn’t exist” or exists a-priori (without previous further necessary explanation)).
The fastest way to help soldiers using a universal all-convincing course is like listening to rap music: I’ll connect concepts in a sequence so fast you’ll:
miss alot the first time you isten
listen to it multiple times to catch something new every time
see that I use different ways to present the same set of concept
There are three groups of people:
the intellectuals whom learn for learning’s sake
those who take the moral argument of having solidarity with soldiers (that it’s more moral to drive a car after a bottle of vodka than to not save soldiers’ lives by teaching a course)
those who have to be schooled by an authority.
Have you asked something about:
what God is?
I can tell you everything about God.
First of all: there are two intellectual traditions: the unbound creativity of romanticism & cold rationality. If I were writing in the romantical tradition I would spend effort writing beautiful confusing metaphors and sagas – the opposite of which is like PowerPoint bulletpoints with facts & concepts about God. This is about seeking truth in the rational manner – analysis (thought-through argument) over spontaneous gambling.
I try to create a true argument that can be pumped out of propaganda-loud speakers at ISIS, Boko Haram, Al-Shabaan, Al-Qaida, the taliban etc.
If I can tell enough rationality about their God then their fighting-morality, group-loyalty, mission and cohesion disintegrates.
What I produce is kind of as learning-intensive as the theory of relativity, but if put on loud-speakers on the religious wars’ front-lines is more powerful than any cannon.
My canon that outperforms any cannon is a theory/understanding that can be taught in limitlessly many ways – I might have 5000 concepts and you can talk them in any sequence which gives X many courses that teach my theory/science/world-view.
Instead of teaching the science in a random order, can we derive from logic some starting points for the course (making the curriculum scientific/universal)? Yes – 2 starting points akin to that it is scientific/universal to teach history chronologically.
The two starting points are Nothingness and “I think & I am”.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
The first order of business is defining the starting points along the “Nothingness”-path & the “I think & I am” path.
Everyone spontaneously believes that he/she exists & that he/she thinks thoughts, but a man
figured this out
in the 1600s. He asked: “what in an allmighty demon would be fooling me in everything I can be fooled at/in?” What remains? Allmighty fooler on a mission to fool completely in everything.
He figured out “I exist” because there is a self necessary for a/that self to be fooled.
As a distinct line of reasoning he figured out that “being fooled is [thinking/a thought-process]”, in other words that thought exists as certainly as the self.
That is the starting point on the “I think & I exist”-path.
The starting point on the Nothingness-path is a starting point because no prior reason/justification is possible/necessary. What doesn’t exist need not be explained.
It is said that when the concept 0 was invented the ancients got afraid of it because out [energymass neurons]/brain cannot properly represent something emptier than neurons/brain. Nothingness is
emptier than we see it as because we are made of and are using somethingness to represent/see/talk about Nothingness.
The next conclusion – the next step on a logical progression – along the ”I think & I am”-path is that there is distinction. There is distinction between thinker and thought. We listed two conclusions – right? – I think AND I exist. Distinction is the separation between thinker & thought. Distinction exists and is a legitimate word.
The conclusion following along the Nothingness-path is that there are laws of nature i.e. Nothingness is non-absurd. As an example: Nothingness would be absurd i.e. it is not true that a thing is not itself i.e. that 1 is not 1 . It’s not like 1=2 now, but now 1=3, and now 1=254. Laws of nature such as 1=1 are stable over time and do not change. Another law of nature that makes the universe non-absurd is that a triangle is not a sphere (geometric truths). Another law of nature, necessary for a rational cosmos, is E=mc
2
.
The next step along the “think & I am”-path is that the distinction exists in something (or nothing). There is one “that of which all is part”, called anti-distinction, in which distinction exists. Reality is one.
The next step along the “Nothingness - E=mc
2
”-path is that there is a law of nature that states, in order for the universe to be non-absurd, that: “if something, say E=m, is mentioned then it must also [exist/be summoned]”. It would be absurd for Nothingness to state “E=mc
2
” forever without E=m (energymass) ever existing.
Footnote: E=mc
2
– the summoning of energymass – is summoned in the smallest spaces simultaneously resulting in a
dense
Big Bang.
Sub-footnote: I drop Nobel prizes like they were growing on trees: the rationale for how to get from Nothingness to Something and the prediction that the Big Bang should be dense is valuable knowledge.
The next step along the “I think & I am”-path is that observation/representation is distinction. This is a repetition of the step where we said “distinction is a legitimate word i.e. there are
both
thinker AND thought”. We, as observers/representers, are in the distinction-realm – as opposed to the anti-distinction-realm – when we observe/represent/always. This means that we, due to distinction – anti-distinction – opposition, do not see [“that of which all is part”/Reality].
The next step in the Nothingness-path is that there is not just one size. There is a range of sizes – each with energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
) – large to small / small to large. Size & time are connected as spacetime. Everything/anything we know about has a size and a time.
The next step along the I think & I am –path is that, since we do not see Reality (that of which all is part) there is more to Reality than can be [known/distinctly made sense of/hypothesized]. Based on the conclusion that everything has a size & time, there must be more sizes & times than can be hypothesized.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
I switch between the two in a universal way.
I can’t do more universal than tasking the two starts of a universal course and intertwining the logical steps step by step.
I would like to show you two synonymous diagrams. The difference between them is in how time is represented. The difference is the same as between a rolled-out video-tape and a TV.
Imagine ten TV screens stacked in a column. Imagine that the topmost TV shows the largest size, the lowestmost TV shows the smallest size and there is a continuum of TVs/sizes between them.
The other synonymous diagram has size on the vertical axis, time on the horizontal axis and every coordinate represents all of the following:
- a size-time (every object has a size and a time)
- a sub-field of science
- a piece of energymasspacetime.
So far we’ve looked at three different concepts – the self, spacetime and anti-distinction – which, if you see them, look the same. The self can’t be seen because one is it, spacetime can’t be seen because it’s emptier than neurons can represent it as, and all of Reality (anti-distinction) can’t be seen because representation is distinction.
These three concepts are inter-connected, though: the self exists as neurons in spacetime, the self and spacetime exist in Reality. Reality is defined as all of energymasspacetime and the self exists as a location within a size-time.
Three unseeable concepts with connections between them.
The phrase “God created earth” is parallelled/rivalled by the phrase “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime and distinction-anti-distinction-opposition”. Both claim to be the explanation to why we exist.
The validity of an existential theory (a theory for why there is existence) is tested by whether it can predict a DNA-strand (and thus the evolution up to humans). If a theory predicts that there ought to be a DNA-strand (at some coordinate in the infinite size-time-diagram) the theory has the scientific predictive quality that a theory needs.
Again, keeping with the universal tradition of this text, just like with the “I think & I am” & “Nothingness” dual paths that I intertwined, the continuation of this book will be written as it is written by others aiming at writing something that can be derived from science (empty space in front of oneself) no matter where in our infinite universe one is located.
The two paths that we meet now are that “the ancients wrote about God/Reality” (how to make
religion make sense in a modern context) and “the existential theory”.
If you want to make the ancients’ concepts God and Soul make sense, God is just a synonym for Reality. I tend to ask religious people:
Is God:
a part within “that of which all is part”/Reality,
a synonym for “that of which all is part”/Reality, or
“beyond”/”outside” Reality (which doesn’t have an outside; anything “outside” is unreal)?
Obviously God has to stay real (there is no spacetime for Him to be located in “outside” energymasspacetime, and I put “outside” in quotes because energymasspacetime has no outside), and God cannot be smaller than (a part of) “that of which all is part”. Allah akbar / God is all-encompassing means there is nothing greater than Him, which is true about the word Reality (energymasspacetime / “that of which all is part”). We already said that “that of which all is part cannot be observed/represented” (meaning there is more to it than infinitely much hypothesizing/representing) and this is said about God too. We also know that Reality is one (not 2 or 0.75) and this is the meaning of the word monotheism. The three things we know about God/Reality – that it is one, that one cannot see it and that there’s nothing greater – are too many for the Reality-God-connection (as synonyms) to be coincidence. The ancients had access to the speculation about how we as selves are distinct and therefore Reality (the most all-encompassing), due to it being anti-distinction, is unobservable. God comes as infinite (1) size-time-axises of (2) energymasspacetime and (3) distinction-anti-distinction-opposition, because this three-idea theory predicts the dawn of a DNA-strand.
“That the self can’t be seen because one is it” is an analysis the ancients would’ve had access to too using their civilized survey of what is true about the unavoidable observer in every observation. This makes science warrant and want the word “soul” as a synonym for the “thinker” we looked at in “thinker & thought exist”.
This should’ve answered the question: “which parts of religion make sense in a modern context?”. God and Soul are useful concepts – and we know much more about both thanks to science than the ancients did. It shouldn’t come as a surprize that the scientific lense’s minimalistic interpretation of religion makes a lot of ritual and dogma unscientific i.e. not universal. I couldn’t possibly add any ritual to this book’s curriculum except that the size-time-diagram is a square so tattoo parlors should see a spike in people wanting that universal diagram tattooed on themselves, along with a triangle (with its tip originating from the center size/center of the square) representing evolution’s increasing complexity/fine-tuning and size of the DNA. It’s a 3D diagram – the square and the triangle being in two different dimensions.
Notice the square (size-time-diagram) and the triangle (evolution) which together are the existential theory, if you remember that E=mc
2
gave us that it is energymasspacetime and the opposition between distinction and anti-distinction. No matter your location in this infinite space (space of the human size is infinite because the size-range is infinite) you’d arrive at the same picture and text.
Wearing this on t-shirts is as universal of a ritual as we will get.
Let’s break down the existential theory’s (God’s) three ideas:
an infinite size-range (with infinite time because size and time are connected as spacetime). Take your body’s size as an example – it is because of the size larger than itself and the sizes smaller than itself. Sizes are because of one another. If the size-range is infinite then this gives infinitely many reasons for any size existing, in other words “the first cause” it retreating infinitely far into the small and large. This explains why a size-range such as our known range exists at all. This is pillar one of the three-pillar existential theory.
of energymasspacetime. Spacetime is emptier than our neurons can represent it as and human endevours are for evolutionary reasons meant to deal with energymass (existence). E=mc
2
is the equation where energymass is mentioned in the E=m-part and the speed of light squared (speed is space (distance) over time) mentions spacetime – in the same equation; they’re connected. This is a pillar of the existential theory because it explains why there can be something (at every size): it is intertwined (and exists in) Nothingness. In Nothing, Something.
distinction-anti-distinction-opposition i.e. the opposition between distinction (like separate observers) and anti-distinction (defined as “that one of which all is part”). We started this book with two paths: “I think & I am” (and distinction between them) and Nothingness (which is intertwined with Somethingness/energymass). Both are correct conclusions eventhough we need “both-and -thinking” to deal with the facts that Reality is both one and has distinction in it.
This three-pillared/three-idea existential theory rivals “God created the universe” and predicts that the Big Bang ought to begin as dense (because E=mc
2
is true in the smallest spaces) and end in dark energy/accelarating cosmis expansion i.e. that the universe becomes emptier until a region of Nothingness appears again – the universe hates a vacuum and since E=mc
2
is true in that vacuum, the vacuum cannot remain empty. This three-pillared theory predicts the dense beginning of the universe and the empty end of the universe – both the dense beginning and emptying future can be observed with telescopes. The theory also predicts, since it has an infinite size-range, that there should be a DNA-strand and thus evolution.
God thus can only remain as three possibilities:
God is a synonym for Reality (and thanks to this book, we know the three-pillared theory which goes into detail about God); God is “that of which all is part”, energymasspacetime.
God is an unnecessary assumption – the word God can be dropped out of our vocabularies because the theory works fine stand-alone. We don’t need a synonym for Reality since we do have the word Reality already, so we deny God because it comes with so much superstitious baggage.
God is added - just like Santa Claus, elfs, fairies and unicorns can be added – to the theory eventhough it doesn’t make sense to add it. There is no spacetime “outside” energymasspacetime and hence to place for a God to be; God cannot be separate/distinct from Reality without being unreal.
This book, by being universally written:
proves that space is infinite (because there is infinitely large) and thus other planets with human life should write the exact same book,
presents a universal idea in a near-universal way (distinction between the curriculum and the science itself),
advanced civilization / is the pinnacle of human civilization when it comes to the big questions like God, Soul and the existential theory,
can cause skisms within religious war-groups i.e. end war for religious reasons,
is a propaganda-weapon to be put on loud-speakers on the current wars’ front-lines.
I thought it fitting, to keep the curriculum universal, to add “what this book can do for humanity” right after the chapter about the existential theory. The next chapter will deal with evolution (beginning from a DNA-strand).
Theres a universal course/book thats on every advanced enough planet throughout the universe and at the regeneration of every universe. If you consider the entire corpus of human knowledge, youd find 3 rational starting points: certain truth, nothingness and that reality is one. Just like dinosaurs predate humans the first chapter with the 3 starting points predate the connecting of "I
think
and I
exist, distinction" and "reality is one, antidistinction." Which leads to that there is more to reality than can be contemplated meaning that its infinite. That’s chaper 2: like multiplication and division are much higher
levels of mathematics than adding and subtracting, chaper 2 is higher than the starting points in chapter 1.
This book was about religions arising from thinking about distinction (there is thinker AND thought) and that there is anti-distinction (Reality is one; E=mc^2 means energymasspacetime), and we are in distinction's realm when we observe/see (representation is distinction). The opposition between distinction and antidistinction (that we can't see reality as a whole) means the size and time axises on a diagram are infinite. Everything happens because it has a reason in the larger, the smaller and in time. The falsity of religions is that this anti-distinction One Reality doesn't write holy books because it's just an infinite size-time-diagram of energymasspacetime and distinction&antidistinction - it's not in such a thing's nature to write a Quran.﻿
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen, Sweden
New Microsoft Word Document (2)
Author
yonis
Posted on
21/03/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Humanisterna
Collection 15 3 2017
collection 15 3 2017
1
Plato and Socrates were resurreced to have a conversation in the 21st century.
Plato: What´s the state of the world? Everything we do emits carbon and those emissions will raise the sea-levels to unbearable heights.
Socrates: What´s unbearable?
Plato: Many people will have to move and there´s no spare space to move to. They´ll be refugees fleeing from water.
God joined the conversation: But that´s 60 years into the future.
Plato: Another "state of the world"-thing is that oil is a limited resource and we´ll run out of if.
Socrates: But that´s also a century in the future - before that oil prices will rise causing increasing poverty.
Plato: So we´re at the pinnacle of the world regarding these two points: it´s like we´ve climbed a mountain and there´s never been and will never be as good a time as there is already and that there´ll be the coming century. But we´ve got millions of years left on the planet - how do we make the inevitable decline of global wealth more bearable, less destructive? The fall is coming - how do we dampen the blow? From the top of the mountain there´s only downhill to go.
God: I evolved you into a group-dwelling species and you form groups around nationhood, around language, around favorite football teams... Pretty much everything seems to be able to bind you humans together - which is another way of saying that you are bound apart from another group of anoter nation/language/football team. You, as seen throughout history and is seen today, find power in numbers and...
Plato: We fight wars - we fight them as groups, meaning something binds us together. The more serious the binding force the more outrageous the war. The larger the number of people that identify as some group the more war morale and power in numbers they experience.
Socrates: How do we, preparing for the coming downhill collapse of global wealth, make groups as tiny and the least bound together as possible? There are countless groups in the world - what could impact them all so that their bonds become more arbitrary to them?
Plato: Nationhood is already a terrible binder because everyone knows that it´s a human invention. Race was a big deal in Hitler´s era but the past 70 years has tought us that there is excellence in every race and travel/cosmopolitan cities has shown us that race - which is most notable in skin color - is a primitive and weak binder. Plus it´s unchangeable: if future wars are fought based on racial bonds - which sounds ridicilous - there´s nothing we can do to prevent people from grouping according to skin-color. If you want to fight a war you must have something more significant than race to dehumanize the other group, and it´s no longer possible to dehumanize based on racial differences because we´ve met people of every race and seen that the difference caused by race is too small to warrant dehumanization and war.
God: If race or nation were your strongest binders, they´d be as weak as can be and that´s good for the future wealth-collapse. You should want weak binders that people are indifferent to - that prevents large-scale wars.
Plato: The context that we´re in is of a coming decline of wealth - the sooner the better, actually, because every moment that passes releases more carbon dioxide and burns more oil. If we could all become as civilized as can be, which means to have group-bonds that won´t lead to large-scale war when the economy turns down, then we´d be as prepared as can be for the future downturn.
Socrates: What were the causes for the latest wars - the Afghanistan and Iraq/Syria wars - to escalate into as big as they were?
Plato: Hussein in Iraq wasn´t a civilized man - he did not follow the maxim "know thyself". He had group bonds that made him want to enrich his people (over other people) based on a cult of personality.
God: He basically didn´t know himself in regards to that power-hungryness/ambition is infinite - he acted out of greed and out of a group-bond to the Iraqi people: he wasn´t a global citizen nor educated to know himself. He annexed a United Nations member, ridiculing the United Nations - setting a dangerous president which basically would´ve made a new international rule that says "you can annex your neighbours and no international entity will stop you". Other nations seeing Hussein succeed might have done the same thing - causing a global set of "eat your weaker neighbour"-wars. And if he or his successor would have, in the coming 50 years, developed a nuclear bomb then the United Nations couldn´t have stopped his expansionist plans but would´ve had to agree to let him take whatever he wants. And like said: he wanted infinitely much because he didn´t understand his greed, and he was group-bound to a set of people instead of to everyone.
Plato: So if civilizing TV-programs or books would´ve reached out to Hussein, making him not group-bind as strongly as he did, he wouldn´t have killed others to enrich (what he thought was) his group. Celebrity and power (from his cult of personality-style state) got to his head. If he would´ve been more of a thinking person instead of reacting like an animal to the celebrity (and wanting to "give back to his fans") he wouldn´t have been such an issue in the eyes of The World Police. The aftermath of the Iraq war was religiously bound groups.
Socrates: What about the Afghanistan war?
Plato: Afghanistan was harboring terrorists - the leaders there too felt power from the celebrity/cult of personality and you don´t need many people praising you to get that vibe of "we´re strong". Why did they harbor terrorists? Religious bonds and the fact that any billion-dollar army looks impressive, triggering the emotion "we´re strong", no matter how insignificant in comparison to USA´s army. Again a civilizing mission to that part of the world to educate people about themselves would´ve helped: to educate about the evolved emotional repertoire and how it gets triggered into feeling "we´re too strong to mess with" from basically anything modern. Plus their faith in the Quran - that God is on any Quran-reader´s side rather than the Christians´/Atheists´ side.
God: So your latest wars were basically a combination of uneducated people who didn´t have a clue about what evolution made the emotional repertoire into, and the derivatives of that such as that seeing 500 armed men gives the illusion of incomprehendable might no matter how trivial that army is compared to USA´s. Non-understanding of the emotional repertoire and what it is used to i.e. what it has been triggered by during millions of years. And a strong group-binding force specifically about me, God.
Plato: And this will not end until humanity combines its best information with its mass-communication media in a sufficient way to civilize everyone, and until the God-debate is finally settled. A little "know thyself"-civilizing education and an argument that completes the theory of God.
God: So if you don´t have a civilizing/educating mission through your TV-screens nor finish your knowledge about Me, the recent wars in Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan is what the future wars due to decline of the oil reservoirs and the sea-level rise will resemble.
Plato: Religion is the strongest changeable binding force - it makes wars become the scale of nations instead of local turf gang wars. If the world is impoverishing due to global warming and peak oil, religion is the factor that decides whether group-bonds i.e. armies are scaled as large as nations or the size of families.
God: Indeed - your various claims about me is what decides whether you´ll have a World War 3 clash of civilizations with collapsed nations adhering to what they call God´s law (like sharia), but if you get rid of all the false claims in religion then the inevitable coming decline will be bearably stable because the biggest army you can gather is not gathered with soldiers swearing oaths on holy books. The context is that of a coming decline but it is the debate about God that decides whether it´ll be with gargantuan strong group-bonds like those caused by religion, or more rational group bonds based on nation or cooperation over material goals.
Socrates: What if, in the aftermath of the Iraq war against Hussein, there wouldn´t have been religion (or at least multiple different religions)? Would the men that now made up ISIS have been able to organize and bind together into big groups? They had the idea that no modern nation resembles the kaliphate that the Quran demands - so without the Quran: would they have had an ideology/mission that they would´ve fought to accomplish? The Quran gave them both a "holy"/super-human group-bond based on a holy book which twists the reader´s prioritizes into accomplishing the holy mission of setting up sharia law in a kaliphate (and expanding that islam as much as possible i.e. world-domination). It´s impossible to imagine world events going as bad at they did - with large cities laid to ruin - without the debate about God being ongoing. If the debate had been finished it´s impossible to imagine the latest wars.
Plato: As long as the God-debate is unfinished, there´ll be holy-book-based group-bonds (meaning large numbers of people acting as one). Right now the secular armies of the world are keeping wars like this from erupting by military means, but that´s obviously not the best solution for the problems caused by
the God-debate and its bonding abilities. Going forward, into the inevitable decline of increasing global poverty, its best to read about and keep up to date on the God-debate, adding to it if possible.
Socrates: Wasn´t Libya in a choice between western values and islamic values, with around 50% of the population on one side and 50% on the other, and because of the lack of a solution to the God-debate the idea "God want´s sharia law" was in the top ten causes for why the country destabilized? The debate could just as well have been between promiscuity vs. marriage, but because the God-debate isn´t settled one of the major forces that plunged the country into chaos was the belief that God had written the Quran. If it could´ve been proven that God definitely didn´t write the Quran, the civil war would´ve been less heated.
God: Future wars, the ones that inevitably will erupt from economic decline due to unpreventable forces like global warming or peak oil, can either be large-scale ones like those of the recent past or just crime and civil unrest like seen in many "stable" countries that don´t make the news because there´s no large-scale armed grouping. Large-scale and religion are like the two sides of a coin - they´re a pair. Bonding causes larger chaos and religion causes bonding. Whether you´ll have major wars or just civil unrest once the economic decline comes and is impossible to roll back depends on how well you handle the God-debate. The God-debate is the most major debate/military issue you can have in this pre-collapse era. If this debate is not held within a limited time-frame, you will have large-scale group-bonding based on religion and those wars will be too grand for letting the mind debate the abstract science that is the God-debate. In this era of relative calmness before the storm, the most important issue for you to debate is the big question: what is God? It´ll save millions of lives - as it would have if it had been completely debated before the Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan wars. The outcome won´t be that humans morph into angels - we´ll still have deaths during the coming and forever lasting impoverishment of humanity, but the chaos can be reduced thousand-fold if humanity accomplishes to civilize itself by using its mind to completely comprehend those major questions that make "religion" and "religious wars" into existing phenomena. And the time for engaging the God-debate it limited: once religious bonding makes things heat up into large scale conflict due to "us vs. them" group loyalties in a world in decline, it´ll be much harder to get a message - an abstract scientific one - across.
Chapter 2: Revelations
Darwin was resurrected and summoned to the conversation.
Darwin: Humans have always like revelations.
Socrates: What do you mean by "liked revelations"?
Darwin: There are eras of revelations. At the dawn of ape-man some warlord must have figured out that it boost fighting morale to have every commandment be divine rather than a choice by man. This warranted a priest or a priest-king who led the war as a commander. Those tribes who had mere men (and proclaimed that mere men made decisions) would´ve had a lower fighting morale than the tribe with divine revelation-commands in war. It was a simple con-artist tactic for the commander to say that his commands came from a divine source - and many propably saw through the scam - but even if it boosted morale just a little bit (and terrified the enemy tribe just a little bit in those superstitious early ape-man days) it was an evolutionary advantage. Soon all tribes adopted the same tactic because it gave evolutionary benefits in tribal wars. Another parallell theory which doesn´t contradict the first one is that parents wanted to raise their kids in as safe a mindset as possible, and thus invented that some invisible deity was the cause of earthquakes, disease, etc and should be worshipped. Or perhaps someone worshipped his ancestors and when asked "why?" he invented that they were divine - both to get more respect to himself and to have the other tribe-members worship those parents. A tool of war in the first theory, an explanation to everything mysterious (rather have an earthquake be a divine will than to have no theory about it whatsoever) or the want for celebrity and respect in the third theory. Gods are simply bound to exist at the dawn of language. People have always liked revelations. A very good book can be written by a totally unknown author or the same book can be written by the most famous author - it´s more likely to be considered worthier a book if it´s written by someone who already has celebrity and respect. The same goes for revelations: a revelation is something which´s author has celebrity and respect, making the revelation "seem better"/sell more. That´s why ad campaigns for cars or perfumes rent as respected of a person as is possible to advertise it. A revelation is to have a statement get respect because it was given by something super-human (a divinity). Something super-human (in eras where such superstitions were not scoffed at) as the author of some statement made more people buy into that statement - we respect (or respected when those things were still believed in) the super-human/divine and we respect their statements/revelations.
Plato: Then there´s another kind of revelation that got respect. Descartes who lived in the 1600s got respect, fame and was invited to live with the Queen of Sweden because he had gotten an idea which certainly told us something true. Revelations can either be con men´s statements like they were from ape-man and forward, or they can actually claim something which is verifyably true. Descartes, propably
having his mind overcrowded by the masses of revelations that had accumulated to his time, asked: "what would be true if all my statements were false?". What would remain if I tossed all my knowledge and ideas into the trash? Are we stuck with countless unverifyable statements, some contradicting eachother, not knowing which ones are true and which ones are not? Obviously not since statements about architecture are obviously true since they build houses, while contradictory statements do not. So Descartes dared to throw all his knowledge in the trash to see what remained. He found certain truth: that he exists - because even if he was wrong or was being fooled in everything he thought to be true, there´d still be a "he" there. He certainly exists no matter what. Same thing goes for thoughts: being wrong or being fooled is a thinking-process so even if he was wrong or was being fooled in everything he thought, there´d still be thought.
Socrates: So he figured out that he thinks and he exists.
God: These are not one statement - they are two.
Socrates: What does that mean?
God: I´ll tell you later - just agree with me that there is distinction between thinker and thought - that the statements are two. It´s building on certain truth, and it´s possible to build a whole... whatever it is that "saves the world" from the coming economic decline by having everyone build on certain truth until the God-debate is settled. Remembering "distinction" (between thinker and thought) will prevent the horror-scenario of large-scale future wars between people group-bound by religions, and instead - since everyone built a whole world-view on certain truth - have a more stable decline in the future. "Distinction" i.e. remembering that there are two certain truths (thinker and thought) is a step on the way toward a plan that will save humanity from destroying itself as much as it would if we didn´t build our world-views on certain truth.
Plato: So after an era of "revelation"-revelations invented by anyone for whatever purpose, coming from Darwin´s ape-man´s revelations, Descartes, in the 1600s, invented a revelation - certain truth: I think and I exist - which got him invited to the Queen of Sweden for the rest of his life. People have always liked revelations and even verifyable truth-claims like Descartes´ get respect.
God: I have set it as true that each one of you humans can verify in your own mind´s eye that you do certainly exist and that there certainly is thought - and thus there is distinction.
Darwin: Distinction is an abstract word. That two objects are separate/different from one another is one of those notions and ape-man never made into language - there was never the evolutionary need to talk about "distinction". Yes: one could say that one banana is different from another (and one wants the bigger one), but to have Distinction exist stand-alone as a distinct notion is abstract thinking and we are not evolved to do that. For millions of years the caveman word for "distinction" was only used in a sentance - not stand-alone as in "distinction certainly exists because thinker and thought are both certain truths".
Plato: This is one of those pitfalls of the mind - biases if you will - that repell some and attract others. Curiosity is the key for wiring one´s brain...
God: As I would like to have it wired. I am not so much for your evolved thinking - to comprehend me you have to think abstractly. However weird it feels, if you want true revelation - like the one you got from Descartes - you need curiosity (an eagerness for truth) to overcome various pitfalls of the mind / biases like the one where certain words should be used in a context (to differentiate one banana as distinct from another) - God wants you to, in order to prevent future large-scale wars, understand abstract truths like saying "distinction certainly exists and was concluded based on Descartes´ I think and I am -certain truth". True revelations include abstractness.
Plato: Which is why Descartes got invited to the Queen of Sweden.
Socrates: Philosophy gives one revelation if revelation is defined as truth.
God: People have always liked God´s truth, whether it be ape-man´s false "truths" or Descartes´ certain truth.
Socrates: Isn´t "distinction" a wide concept used on even atoms being distinct from one another? My chair is distinct from my pillow which is distinct from my thinker and thought.
God: Indeed - the chinese called "distinction" "the ten thousand things" because 10 000 is about as many items as the mind can comprehend visually.
Darwin: The human brain evolved its size so much so that it can imagine 10 000 soldiers, but like Stalin said: one death is a tragedy, a million deaths is just a statistic. The chinese meant the abstraction "distinction" when they said "the ten thousand things" - they were speaking metaphorically of the very notion of distinction. They didn´t literally count 10 000 something - in their philosophy they called the entire world "the ten thousand things" which simply means that distinction exists. The chinese and Descartes proved the same point: it is God´s word that distinction is a legitimate concept in a world that is one as a whole.
Socrates: Is there an opposition between Reality being one (you´ve never heard anyone say "two Realities") and there being multiple things (distinction)? The definition of Reality is that all things are part of it; the external world comes as a singular.
Plato: It is certainly possible to, in the mind´s eye, uphold the notion of a single Reality of which everything is part. Even the word "everything" is a single word referring to all distinct items/notions at once.
God: That of which all is part is one.
Darwin: This is again a pitfall of the mind: we evolved to consider events, memories and stories as that either, for example, that person was there or he was some other place - but he was not here and there at the same time. We evolved to rearrange matter for evolutionary benefits and never were we confronted with a scenario where two opposite scenarios were simultaneously true. An item was either here or there - not both places at once. Either a death had occurred or it hadn´t - not both cases simultaneously. Even in caveman days did we have a word for "the world" (like in the sentence: "the world is full of items") - a single word to refer to all things at once.
God: And I did indeed make One Reality - not two or three, nor half of one. It can be counted: 1.
Darwin: So while the caveman days had words like "distinction" and "reality"...
Plato: And Reality can be defined as anti-distinction because it is a single word referring to a single Creation.
God: And in religious speech you have never heard priests say "God created Creations" with "creations" as plural.
Darwin: Cavemen used both the all-encompassing everything-containing notion "Reality"/"The world" in sentences like "it´s ONE nasty world" and they used the distinction-notion in sentectes like "the two bananas are distinct", but it wasn´t until the past maybe 5000 years that both notions were taken out of contexts, analyzed independently and realized to be the opposites of one another. This is a pitfall of the mind, it took hundreds of thousands of years of using the words in contexts before someone took them out of contexts and opposed them to one another. We didn´t evolve to handle two true scenarios/cases simultaneously (but we did evolve to think of everything as scenarios/cases, which is why abstract thinking is so new).
Plato: There are many ways to say that there is both distinction and anti-distinction. One can use synonyms to them like separation vs. Reality; many vs. One. But "that of which all is part" - the most all-encompassing, One Reality, should always be capitalized when writing it because it is the only thing worth worshipping.
God: Am I it or am I part of it?
Plato: You are a synonym to it because no monotheism considers God a part of something larger; if God were a part of something larger than that larger should be the One which worship is directed toward. If one worships Reality then one worships something greater than God, if God is a part within a larger whole.
Socrates: Imagine two groups of worshippers and assume God is part of a larger whole called Reality (which is one because it is defined as "that of which all is part"): which group worships the greater? Which group worships God plus something more? God must be a synonym for Reality.
Plato: God is one - Reality is one. God is all-encompassing/"akbar" - Reality is all-encompassing/"akbar".
Darwin: Eventhough we´ve now taken both distinction out of any "natural" context and defined Reality as one, we´re still not at the peak of complexity regarding how non-ape-like our thinking can get. If we pit the two notions we´re talking about against eachother, we´d call them distinction and anti-distinction (one is anti-distinction), and our evolved mind goes bananas when two opposites are true. But what´s more is that distinction happens in Reality; distinction happens in anti-distinction. The single One is divided up into many distinct pieces - but yet there is all the time only One (Reality is always a valid concept). So one of our two notions is not only the opposite of the other, it exists within or is the property of the other. Distinctiveness is the property that a single Reality upholds. As a student of evolution, thinking about the scenarios that never happened in the natural world, there never was a putting of two opposites within one another, both being abstract and out of any natural context like Reality and distinction are. We evolved to think in terms of stories, memories and scenarios - not in terms of opposites containing eachother both being abstract. Not only was our toolkit (our mind) not made for this job: it has an explicit bias and avoidance of having two true opposites (especially when they´re made of one another).
Socrates: Is this just a mental game to build a mental sculpture without conclusion?
God: No - it is revelation; you don´t like it because you evolved. It´s built on certain truth and it´s gotten quite complex: this revelation has expanded. But there is a punchline: you cannot see God. As Descartes said: you are distinct and thus opposites to Me because I am anti-distinction. You know for certain that you think - and when you think of me you are not entering anti-separation: you are just holding a distinct notion in front of you which is supposed to be anti-separation/Reality/God.
Plato: This is the dawn of monotheisms. Someone realized that by being distinct, as Descartes proved for each one of us that we are - observation is separation - we cannot see anti-distinction.
Darwin: Here too is a pitfall of the mind. The very sentence "I cannot see X" when talking about X as things the mind can summon in the mind´s eye, sounds like a contradiction to evolved ears. If you said X/Reality/anti-distinction then you assume that you are beholding it in your mind´s eye. But you are not! Separation is inherent in the very act of beholding something in the mind´s eye and we are trying to behold the opposite of separation. Does it get more complex than this? We built the sculpture - and it is all revelation because it goes step-by-step from certain truth - and now we can conclude that we, as distinct entities (observation is distinction) cannot see our finest, most recent conclusion even in the mind´s eye: we can´t see Reality.
Plato: Ah, that reminds me of my cave metaphor. I realized, about 2000 years ago when I was still alive, that our setting of words to things, our learned properties of tools, our differing opinions, our contradicting histories of things like who won a fight - all prove that our mental maps are not equal to the external "territory". It´s like we´re chained to the wall of a cave and our vision sees only the shadows in the sunlight against the wall of the cave - we don´t see out the entrence of the cave, we only see the shadows. This realization that our mental representations of things are not the things themselves - that senses are distorting middlemen and so is the mind too - can be phrased as "the map is not the territory".
God: No! The "distinction to anti-distinction opposition" that we built up to from certain truth and led us to the conclusion that as distinct entities/thinkers/observers we do not see "that of which all is part"/Reality/God/anti-distinction, is not your 2000 year old conclusion about "the map is not the territory". Plato, your discovery that you told through your cave-metaphor has been significant and repeated until the modern age, and will always be taught to children - it was a great discovery, but it´s not the birth of monotheism: it´s not the distinction vs. anti-distinction "we cannot see Reality"-thesis.
Plato: I know, the two just remind me of one another.
Darwin: The difference between them is that you don´t get monotheism out of knowing that your mental map is not "the territory". Plato said, 2000 years ago through his cave metaphor, that "we interpret things". It is a pitfall of the mind to not see this notion, but it makes perfect sense since we work (maximize evolutionary benefits) faster by our brains being wired to disregard that we work on interpretations of the world. In fact: it would´ve been a cumbersome non-benefitial mutation to have the brain, as it works, to always be reminded of that it is working on the world through a middleman i.e. it is interpreting. Why would we have evolved the knowledge that we´re interpreting instead of acting without middleman? Such things had to be invented and Plato was the first to have invented it 2000 years ago. We´re not born with that knowledge, it´s taught from generation to the next. Every animal just acts and no animal, except humans when they´re taught Platos discovery, has gotten evolutionary benefits from acknowledging Plato´s cave metaphor i.e. "the map is not the territory" i.e. there is a middleman (senses, interpretations, mental maps, knowledge).
God: But all of this is off-topic to the discussion you were having about not seeing Me. You have to distinguish between what we can call "distinction-antidistinction-opposition" which is the sculpture we built logic-by-logic from certain truth, and Plato´s "the map is not the territory"-statement about the middleman. Having a middleman to our, for evolutionary reasons assumed to be direct contact with the
world, is not the birthplace of monotheism. Talking about why One anti-distinct Reality - the only thing worth worshipping because it contains everything - cannot be seen because we are, as Descartes said, distinct (and thus opposite to anti-distinction), is the birthplace of monotheism. We left off, on our sculpture, at "distinction cannot see Reality" and then we got reminded of Plato´s "the map is not the territory"-discovery - but the two discoveries are different because "the map is not the territory" in no way utilizes the all-encompassing anti-distinction concept nor the certain-truth distinction-concept, nor does it lead to monotheism. Plato´s discovery is just an observation, taught forward as a metaphor, about our senses and interpretations of an external world which we gain information about.
Socrates: Why did God give us two so similar but different revelations?
God: Because one is simple and the other one is complex.
Darwin: Both are evolutionary pitfalls of the mind, but Platos´ contains just one pitfall: that we didn´t evolve to acknowledge any middleman. Plato acknowledged a middleman (i.e. our interpretive nature) and that´s all there was to it. In the teaching that saves the world from group-bonding once decline occurs is based on and builds upon certain truth. In it we´ve gotten past many pitfalls - not just one like in Plato´s discovery. Plato is fully understood if one acknowledges one evolutionary pitfall - one distinction between how we, due to evolution, naturally think and how we "ought to think".
God: Ought to think means how I urge you to think - you get revelation - you find our more about me - by overcoming all pitfalls that evolution gave you. Plato´s finding gets you past one pitfall - and that´s good: you´ve found out more about me. But the reason he was the starter of philosophy and not the ender of all religious wars is because he didn´t build a sculpture made out of avoidances of pitfalls.
Socrates: I see that the story where Descartes, distinction and anti-distinction are involved is separate from Plato´s 2000 year old cave metaphor. I see the difference in complexity i.e. number of pitfalls when I compare the platonic cave-metaphor´s resemblance to that there are two equally legitimate truths - distinction and anti-distinction - and they exist atop of eachother i.e. simultaneously, but are opposites, and we humans are in one (distinction) in one way, but in anti-distinction (Reality) in another way. "We don´t see Reality" are words that slip of our tounge regarding both the platonic cave-metaphor and the... whatever it´s called: story that ends wars.
God: Logic about me; revelation confirmed by each and everyone individually and in groups; the truth rather than the conflict that causes bloodshed. Plato overcame one pitfall. In the story based on Descartes´ distinction and God being all-encompassing Reality which is one and can´t be represented we´ve gotten to the point that easily reminds humans of Plato´s cave metaphor: "I don´t see Reality/anti-distinction", but we get side-tracked if we think Plato´s cave metaphor is the same as the opposition (and simultaneous intertwinedness) between distinction and anti-distinction; between ourselves and Reality. Humans associate too easily - when two different works of logic leads to the summary of a conclusion using the same phrase, we think that the two works of logic are the same - but they´re not and that´s the pitfall.
Plato: It´s akin to two pieces of art - paintings - both containing the same image of a bird. Just because one sentence is the same doesn´t mean its meaning is the same, or that the reasons for it are the same.
Socrates: Nor are the conclusions that stem from it the same.
Darwin: Too quick associations - even though the prelude to them was different and the way in which the sentence "I don´t see Reality" is meant is different - is a pitfall. For the story that ends religious wars it´s better to not even know Plato´s cave-metaphor. There must be a clear distinction in one´s mind between the platonic "I don´t see Reality" (because of middlemen i.e. the map-territory-distinction) and the more fundamental "I don´t see Reality" which is based on that both distinction and anti-distinction are legitimate but opposite concepts.
Socrates: Let´s say we´ve unlearned Plato´s cave-metaphor: why is our "I don´t see Reality" - because of distinction and anti-distinction - "more fundamental"?
God: Because it says something more thorough-going than the shallow-penetrating platonic statement. Guess how I, God, defined "see"?
Is this going to clarify things in religion, preventing grand clashes in the future? Religion scales up war - is the coming statement going to scale down those future wars?
God: Yes. The way I defined "see" or observer or hear or smell or taste or behold in your mind´s eye or comprehend or think about some notion, is to use the word "represent" to refer to all of these. Like in
the sentence "the coffe cup represents the chair" it means that the coffee cup is a symbol - like a vision or a thought-up notion is - and it´s pointing toward the chair / it symbolizes the chair. Guess how vaguely I´ve defined "it´s pointing toward" and "it symbolizes"?
Plato: The human definition would involve humans or computers, because without humans nor computers there wouldn´t be anything capable of handeling a representation of a chair using a coffee cup. It´s subjective what represents what - humans decide what represents what at any one moment.
Socrates: Would there the coffee cup represent the chair if all humans and all computers would be removed?
God: Yes and no. Maybe. This shows how vaguely I´ve defined "represents". If you exclude humans from the game, anything can randomly and arbitrarily represent (be a pointer to and a symbol of) anything. A human life is the very representation of things as mental objects - we haven´t seen a single thing without a neuron or two being parked as the symbol that refers to whatever external we are referring to.
Socrates: Our lives are that of representations; without them we´d be nothing - we´d be spider-brains brain-wise. Our favorite task is to represent. We humans might have firm beliefs about that the word "cow" means something that can give milk, and we´re repulsed by those who use the word "cow" to mean comb. That repulsion and insiting on a word represent what society agrees it should represent is what language is built of.
Darwin: We´d fall into pitfalls of the mind all the time is we weren´t strict about what is allowed to represent what and what is not allowed to represent what. If the ideas and words in our heads suddenly started becoming representours and representees, we would´ve gone crazy: our world-view wouldn´t make sense nor would we be able to speak coherently. Human strictness about how firmly or loosely something (an idea) represents something else (a visual object), or what is not allowed to represent what, was an evolutionary necessty for complex world-views/plans to evolve.
God: But back to the topic at hand, how do I, God, define "represent" - am I strict about which clusters or matter are allowed to represent which other clusters of matter? Would I allow a tiny region of empty space - part of Reality as it is - represent all the galaxies in the cosmos simultaneously?
Plato: Why not: the strictness in human representations is an evolved trait - we don´t go around abusing the gift by letting random things represent random things; to prove this: you´ve propably never heard of particularly a coffee cup representing a chair. We evolved to represent as to create mental maps which include evolved inventions like hierarchies (king vs. slave), personalities (is he a threat to me or not?), social bonds between various people (are the three of those protect eachother?) - but we also map less alive things like the level of calmness in the country which we live in, or the grand-scale context involving God i.e. that of which all is part is the umbrella under which all other maps reside - be they geographical, social, how to use tools, plans for the future, memories of the past.
Darwin: We have clear biases in our map-making; some things interest us while other things that we could possibly represent don´t interest us. Our representations are collected through biases.
Plato: Don´t computers also represent? The location A654 on the hard-drive might point to the data stored on the other side of the drive, which when interpreted through a image-viewing program is a family photo.
Socrates: Indeed - so you could say that if computers stay working and all humans die, then there´d still be representation because one area or item is only useful when being akin to a finger pointing to the representee. But what about the cup and the chair -example? A relationship of representing was summoned between them by a human simply stating that one represents the other. We could jot it down on paper and now the paper would be the keeper and communicator of that relationship of representation. A computer is just like a piece of paper in this regard - but so is the human brain: the human brain´s representing ability seems different from that of a piece of paper´s or a computer´s because we see evolutionary benefits (we see feeling) in our representations. Representation happens so fast to us - and our feelings tell us whether the connections or chronological sequence of representations following one another is an evolutionary benefit or its opposite (to be loved or feared). Anatomically, if you opened up the brain under a microscope, you´d see neurons as the ideas (representees and representors) and the "arms" (axons, dendrites) of the neuron - connecting it to other neurons - as the relationship called "representation" or association. If a complex visual stimulus (of you seeing a cow) is, through the microscope, observed to happen at the back of your brain, you´d see it connect to a much smaller "mind´s cow"-concept both as a linguistic item and an imagined mind´s eye visual item. How is this different from gluing a photograph of a cow on the same piece of paper onto which a 3-year-old has drawn "a cow", and writing "a cow" as a third representor of the actual - and now we get to Plato´s map-territory-distinction - cow itself? There is a real cow on the meadow but our paper has three objects referring to it - just as our brain has three objects referring to it. If we´d brainstorm around the word "cow" on the paper, the paper would exactly resemble how our brain
represents external phenomena like the cow.
God: So what differentiates you, human, from a computer or a piece of paper is that you bias your representations and seek through your representations in search for evolutionary benefits, is that right?
Plato: My intuition tells me that my world-map is more significant than the cow on the paper or the coffeecup determined to represent the chair.
Darwin: Our world-view is what our plans are made in; it is the house of our imaginary future and of our past; our mental map is the context to everything that happens. Whether God gave revelations to bronze-age men is either true or false, but it is the mental map i.e. our world-view that sets the context for what is possible and what is impossible. The future wars coming from the economic decline of the world will be religious wars if humanity does not steer away from its current path. Religious wars is all about "true or false"-claims about the context, about the house of our plans, about our world-view. Being of differing opinions on questions about the context and what it can and can´t do (for example: give revelations other than as human-found truths about God) is the bringer of large-scale war; if the context could be agreed upon by everyone - if we can start from Descartes´ certain truth and work our way up to having a context/world-view that explains everything - then we can ask where/if a revelation-giving side-in-war-choosing God fits in it. The context/world-view is what it is: so far we´ve gone from Descartes certain truth of I exist and thought exists, to claiming that the former warrants the idea "distinction", then we talked about anti-distinction (that of which all is part / Reality / God (if God is as grand and thus as much worth worshipping as Reality).
Darwin: Then we talked about how human life is all representation, biased and emotional such.
God: That´s why you have a different intuition and relationship toward "representation" that I do. I´m very liberal when it comes to whom or what or when something starts and stops representing something else. I know that representing is very important for you humans, but I didn´t design the cosmos antropocentrically (with you as my dearest and your representations more worthwhile than any other phenomena). Representation to me means as much as dancing: God doesn´t dance. If you take great delight in it, nay - if your whole life all is it from beginning til end - then still I don´t care about it any more than the sudden, totally independent of humans noticing, pictures painting or computers storing, representation of a chair using a coffee cup. I´ll let the coffee cup represent the chair while at the same time having nothing represent nothing in the same scenario. I´ll both set representation as the
relationship between the coffee cup and chair, and simultaneously set non-representation as the relationship. You can see my point if two strangers walk into the room never having thought about representation in the way we´re talking about it: I´ll ask them: does the coffee cup represent the chair? One person says yes and the other says no. Both are right and both are wrong. Representation is arbitrary. From a God´s eye point-of-view anything can represent anything, nothing can represent everything - anything you can imagine the word "represent" be used for is always simultaneously both active and inactive. That´s why you get difficulties in getting the world world to agree on a single dictionary definition for any one word: God didn´t make these (representation) rules, man created them to better be able to communicate. It´s a shared agreement amongst humans (and cats and dogs if they know their names). A word represents something but there is no universal language (God didn´t choose, say, arabic as The Language) meaning that representing itself is a human game which eases gaining evolutionary benefits. God couldn´t care less what we use to represent what and there definitely is no God-given representations available.
Socrates: We left off, in our philosophy, at the conclusion that "we don´t see (see meaning represent) Reality" because we are in the realm of distinctions while Reality is defined as that of which all is part i.e. anti-distinction. The distinction-antidistinction relationship is as follows: they are both legitimate words; they are opposites but both are true simultaneously and always; humans exist in both realms but as seers/representors in the distinction-realm (because observation is separation) and as non-seers/non-representers when trying to see/represent Reality. When we try to represent anti-distinction we must ask ourselves: how did God define "represent"/"see". We concluded that although humans and other map-making animals put great importance on representations, God does not. God will let a coffee cup represent a chair and simultaneously not - the notion "represents" as a relationship between two objects is from God´s point of view there´s zero importance to what represents what: representation is an arbitrary relationship to God (if it can be called "a relationship" at all because it is us map-making humans that for evolutionary reasons insist on biasing our thoughts to have such relationships in the first place). The act of representing is 100% loosely (not strictly) defined from God´s point of view; representing is antropocentric - something humans do while the relationship "this represents that" both exists and doesn´t exist stand-alone from humans in nature.
God: I don´t care if a rock represents a tree right now - representations, like beauty is said to be, is in the eye of the beholder and eyeless things like Gods simply aren´t concerned with what humans have defined to represent what.
Socrates: So the smallest could represent the largest?
God: Why not - if you will it, it does. If you claim the representing is as you say, then the representing is as you say. I´ve defined the notion "represents" as loosely as can be - maximally loosely - it is a completely arbitrary human game to which I´ve set no rules.
Plato: Remember the part of the discourse when we concluded that "we don´t see/represent Reality" (and not because of the platonic cave-metaphor but because of the more fundamental opposition between distinction and anti-distinction)? Representation being defined by God as it is, combined with the statement "I don´t represent Reality (due to distinction-antidistinction-opposition)" is...
God: Revelation - truth about Me. More holy than any holy book. The more complex (reaching a higher level of intelligence) the conclusion, the more distinct are you from the lower animals and the more detailed the sculpture/world-view you´re building becomes. You´re basically wiring your brain to become as I, God, make it if you think about me enough.
Plato: True - this pinnacle of intellectual civilization has, if space is infinite and evolution common, been reached on infinitely many planets before ours first though. If time is infinite then what we´re discussing is the apex of a mountain that every civilization in eternity climbs.
Darwin: The reason it´s new is because it´s hard. The reason it´s hard is because evolution gave us a toolkit (mind) that falls into pitfalls as soon as intellectual discourse doesn´t fit what cavemen were dealing with in their maps, plans etc - and trust me: their context/most all-encompassing map/world-view, even though they liked to have divinities with wills as causes for earthquakes, did not get to this point - coming from Certain Truth, avoiding tens of pitfalls that want to make us give up the whole search for truth and a universal mind/world-view.
Plato: Darwin, this world-view - because it is basically a "view of Reality/the world" albeit a very well organized, abstract one with pitfalls to be avoided - isn´t what our brain evolved to deal with as "the context under which our lives unfold", is it? Yet all this abstractness, all this highly civilized talk like taking the word "represent" out of context and asking what God thinks about it, is indeed true.
Socrates: I´m not going to talk about this topic again nor remember any of this unless this discussion leads up to a conclusion, preferrably seeable, which explains (answers the questions why? and how?) anything and everything I might want to ask. It should be so full-fledged that pseudo-explanations like
the religious ones pale in comparison. That´d defeat group-bonding and thus humanity can evade large-scale future wars.
God: Relax - we are not even half-way through the story / sequence of logical thoughts. The last thing we arrived at was that I don´t define "represents" and you, or a computer, or why not something that doesn´t even seem to do representing, represents one thing using another.
Socrates: "I represent Reality" is a true claim since "represents" could mean "see" and we do indeed see, so we represent - and what do we represent? A part of Reality. No-one would deny that they experience/represent everyday life. But, because of distinction-antidistinction-opposition nothing can represent antidistinction because all representation is tethered to distinction. Distinction - having one thing have the relationship "I represent..." toward another thing - is a necessity for representation unless representation is so loosely defined by God that you don´t even need two things to do representation - maybe God´s opinion is that a thing can represent itself without any distinction present. That is a question for another day, so for now let´s consider humans: we do see something - we do experience/represent life - and there is distinction present in all human representations when we represent Reality/anti-distinction. But if, for human representations, distinction is unavoidable when claiming to represent the opposite of distinction, then the opposite of distinction - that of which all is part / Reality - cannot be represented in its anti-distinct nature.
Plato: Again we are back at the conclusion "I don´t see Reality" - and as you can see we don´t see everything as One: if we did, we wouldn´t see or know the difference between ourselves, a chair and a coffee cup. Human representations always have distinction in it like Descartes said when he gave us two certain truths instead of one: I think and - insert distinction here - I exist.
God: It is a universal truth - a law of nature, if you will - that nothing which sees can see anti-distinction. Reality is like a two-sided coin: on one side you have "the ten thousand things"/distinction and on the other side you have "that of which all is part"/the most all-encompassing singular anti-distinction. This is why humans can say "I don´t see Reality" - they mean one of the sides of the coin.
Plato: When we see the distinction-side of the coin - the only side which we can see - do we see all there is to Reality? I don´t know. But when we consider/represent as best we can the other side of the coin (antidistinction), we certainly do not see Reality.
God: If we focus on the distinction-side of the coin, you are unaware of the answer to the question: "is there more to Reality than can be represented?". The answer can either be yes or no - maybe our distinct representations - or let´s say a coffeecup independent of humans - represent all there is to Reality. But on the other side of the coin (the anti-distinction-side) you get a clear answer to whether you see/represent all of Reality or not: no, you do not.
Plato: We, nor a coffee-cup, represents - eventhough represents is infinitely loosely defined - something but not Reality because Reality is anti-distinction by being that of which all is part. Certainly there is one Reality and certainly does nothing, despite the looseness of the definition of "represents", represent that Reality.
God: I gave Reality the property of being unseeable/unrepresentable. Sure - the coin has another side which leaves the question: "can any representation manage to represent all of Reality?" an unclear answer: maybe what we see when we are distinct (as we always are) all of Reality. But the other side of the coin tells us that no representation - not even the coffeecup - is enough to represent Reality. Even in the thought-experiment that things are allowed to represent themselves - no distinction needed - there´d be at least two things (and thus not anti-distinction) if something (even Reality as a whole itself) would try to represent Reality as a whole.
Socrates: So God, through our reasoning/logic, gave us two questions: "can X represent Reality when Reality is considered to be its infinitely many parts (distinction)?" and "can X represent Reality when Reality is considered to be just one all-encompassing whole (anti-distinction)? The questions can be rephrased as: "is Reality infinite?" and the first question (when Reality is considered as distinct parts) leaves the question "is Reality infinite?" unanswered - we simply don´t know when we limit our information like this. But the second question gives a clear answer to the question "is Reality infinite?" because of two reasons: 1) we do not see/represent Reality eventhough we do experience life i.e. represent something. No matter how loose God considers representations to be, no representation represents "that of which all is part" because it is anti-distinction and representation tethers distinction to whatever is being represented. We do see some (distinction) but no representation represents anti-distinction which is synonymous to Reality; we do see something but we don´t see Reality (and not for the platonic-cave reason; instead the reason is the opposition between anti-distinction (the oneness of Reality) and distinction (which is inevitably used when representation occurs (and it occurs all the time according to God, regardless of humans)).
Plato: We got two questions from God and one premise: the premise was that representation is distinction. The first question was "do we see Reality (when the side of the coin that shows distinction is
considered). The answer to this first question was that we don´t know whether we represent "all of it" or not (whether we represent "that of which all is part"/Reality or if we don´t). If we don´t, considering how loosely "represents" is defined by God, we still know that representation occurs i.e. the coffeecup can be said to represent that of which all is part: the coffee cup represents as much as is possibly allowed: I could claim that one notion of mine represents that of which all is part. This being the answer to the first question, it would be possible for Reality to be finite because I can claim to represent Reality using one notion. With this distinction-based question and answer Reality could be finite or it could be infinite; Reality could be considered to be represented if Reality is finite - we simply don´t know if Reality is finite or infinite when we´re looking at the "Reality is the ten thousand things / distinction"-side of the coin. The second question, "do we see Reality (when the side of the coin that shows anti-distinction is considered?", has only one answer: no, we do not represent Reality because representation is distinction. Whatever we represent, whatever is being represented is not Reality when Reality is considered to be anti-distinction (because distinction is inherent in representations). Anti-distinction cannot be represented; we don´t represent Reality no matter how much or what we represent.
God: Reality comes as both anti-distinction and distinction. When you asked questions about the distinction-version of Reality you got the answer that you might represent it or you might not - it may be infinite or it may not be (if it is infinite it can´t be represented). When you asked questions about the anti-distinction version of Reality you got the answer that no matter the representation and no matter how loosely God has defined what representation means, representation cannot represent Reality because distinction is inherent in representation. You cannot represent Reality.
Plato: Representation is distinction like when Descartes said that the self that certainly exists is distinct from a notion/thought/idea/representation (which certainly exists too). When Reality´s distinction-side is considered, you don´t know if all of Reality can be represented or not - but it´s an open possibility that a coffee cup or mental notion is a reference to "all of it", and if that be the case then Reality must be finite. We got two questions that start out the same: "do we see Reality if Reality is..." 1) distinct entities, 2) a single all-encompassing whole. We obviously see distinct entities but we don´t know whether a notion or coffee cup, based on God´s definition of "represents", can be said to represent Reality. If Reality would at this point in our logical discourse be known to be infinite, then nothing could represent it. But it is only when we ask "can something represent Reality when Reality is anti-distinction?" that we get the answer "representation is distinction i.e. you cannot represent Reality", meaning that without a doubt Reality must be infinite because there is no way to represent it.
Darwin: It´s a pitfall of the mind that Reality has this dual nature of both being One and simultaneously being many distinct parts. This dual nature lets God pose two questions to us which both are asked in order to answer a third question, namely "is there infinitely much to Reality?". If Reality would only be distinction and not at all anti-distinction then we´d get a "maybe - I don´t know"-answer to the
questions "is Reality infinite?" and "can Reality be represented?". But since the second question deals with Reality´s anti-distinction-nature, we get the answer that there is no way to represent it - and yet we talk about it! For logic to occur Reality must be infinite because our words obviously refer to it (represent it) but we know that we do not represent it because it is anti-distinction and words are distinction. Distinct words can, as we do in this very sentence, represent it (mind you how loosely God uses the word "represents"/"refers") - and yet one claim holds true: that anti-distinction cannot be represented. We do represent and refer to something - and we try to make that something "that of which all is part" (a singular anti-distinction) - and we stand with two facts:
Plato: 1) That we do represent Reality because we are speaking about it, using notions like anti-distinction/"that of which all is part" to represent it in that very loose way in which God defined "represents" - and yet we know that the distinction-antidistinction-opposition makes us unable to do what we just said we did: speak about / refer to / represent Reality. The only solution to this is that there is more to Reality than can be referred to / spoken about / represented. We do represent something (and we try to make that something "Reality") with our words, yet we know from distinction-antidistinction-opposition that there is a reason more fundamental than Plato´s cave metaphor which makes Reality incapable of being represented. We represent something (even with the word "Reality") but we do not represent Reality. This is proof that there is infinitely much to Reality - when we speak about "that of which all is part" we are only speaking about part of it (no matter how much hypotheses we add to our representor).
Socrates: So the distinction-antidistinction-opposition that makes representations of Reality impossible make it so because we are capable of representing something (of Reality) but, despite the looseness of God´s word "represents", we are not referring to / representing all of Reality. No matter how much we refer to, we do not refer to Reality as a whole - and the only way this makes sense is by Reality being infinite.
Plato: When Reality´s distinction-side is considered, we don´t know if Reality is infinite or not because our representation (be it a word or a coffee cup) doesn´t yield the answer: "not even that representation, with not even that definition of the word 'represents', represents (all of) Reality". But when considering our blindness in any of our representations when Reality´s anti-distinction-nature is considered, making a representation of Reality yields the answer: "by the distinct referring to the anti-distinct, the representation does not refer to Reality", which answers "yes" on the question "is Reality infinite?" because we can play around infinitely much with God´s definition of "represents" and still none of our attempts represents Reality. The word "anti-distinction" represents Reality but since it simultaneously, due to distinction-antidistinction-opposition, does not represent Reality, then Reality must be infinite. We do see something but we don´t see all of it, no matter how much we try to play around with the word "represents" or "refers to".
Darwin: How much of a pitfall for the mind is that?! We ask the same question - "do I represent Reality?" - to both Reality´s distinct flipside of the coin and to Reality´s anti-distinct flipside of the coin. From the distinct side we can´t conclude anything about the infinity of Reality, but from the anti-distinct side we can conclude that Reality is infinite. We asked one question - "do I represent Reality?" - and based on the answers we were able to answer another question: "is Reality infinite?". Yes it is because only the infinite cannot be represented (with God´s loose definition of "representation"/"reference to"). There are so many pitfalls of the mind regarding this that it boggles the mind - but new 21st century science can only exist if it goes through mental acrobatics to yield a goal like the answer "Reality is infinite (and we only represent part of the infinite)".
God: Good job, humans! You´ve led an uninterrupted path from Certain Truth to that Reality is Infinite without making any assumptions along the way. What you have so far is True - your world-view has now, without a doubt, gotten the notion "infinite Reality". Now the hard part of logic is over and only easy conclusions remain - in no time you´ll have a world-view that, based on the 100% certain methodology used so far, explains the creation of the world, the dawn of evolution, the human emotional repertoire etc. But as a reward for having found out that I, God, am infinite I´ll tell you a direct conclusion from the fact of infinity: there are infinitely many planets where the exact same mental acrobatics were done to prove the exact same point; in the now-proven-to-be infinite Reality there are infinitely many creatures just like you whom used the exact same sequence of logical steps, beginning from exactly the same "I think & I am"-starting point - and their brains, their "world-view" also added infinity to the grandest context in which everyone´s lives unfold. To be funny about it: you´re thinking like an alien (extraterrestrial, which there are infinitely many of because Reality is infinite). To be serious about it: your civilization just took a step in a universal direction - along God´s path - instead of into some rare arbitrary direction. You´ve just proven that there are infinitely many civilizations and you proved that by using certain truth plus logic - do you know how many other civilizations across infinite space have taken, are taking or will take the exact same direction (logic is light a flashlight that guides us through the dark into the right direction) using the exact same starting point (certain truth), prevented the exact same future horror-scenario (wars over lack of universal knowledge, or rather group-bonds based on non-universal holy books) and avoided/overcome the same darwinian pitfalls which were the reason why this science was invented so late in human history. Everyone likes a revelation - if you believe something came directly from God you are appropriate to respect it; the infinite Reality in which infinitely many aliens use the exact same sequence of thoughts (beginning from certain truth, noticing the pitfalls, etc until the infinity of Reality is proven) - the exact same textbook/curriculum. The fundamental ideas taught so far can be taught in any order, but only one or a few orders are the same orders that are chosen, based on logic, on the majority of alien civilizations. The language of the book will be different from planet to planet but the order of the ideas, the universal evolution-based pitfall warnings, the most essential elements of this book are true revelation if revelation is defined to be universal i.e. accessible to logic on any of the infinitely many planets.
Most planets, it can be reasonably assumed, appriciate science and thus let logic guide them in their shopping
for a world-view that makes sense. No matter how much time out of infinitely much time passes, God has installed the same pitfalls, order or ideas, the same starting point etc etc - the same book in essence - in the very fabric of Reality. It is exactly what´s needed to both advance civilization and to prevent coming wars from having an element of holy book-based group-bonding which scales up the war. Everyone likes a revelation and what you´ve just read is the first truly holy book, the first world-view applicable to everyone (throughout an infinite universe), the first revelation by God choosing the order of ideas, where the pitfalls will be, what the starting point should be, etc.
Plato: We got from "I think and I am" to "distinction" to "all is part of a single Reality called anti-distinction" to asking questions about the representability of Reality and thus being able to ask what the answers to the representability-questions tell us about the extent/infinity of Reality. God, what´s the next step on this universal sequence? We want to wire our brain more in the way that you chose to be good for thinking animals. We want to be more like the majority of highly-civilized planets - to have the same ideas and the same associations and explanations between those ideas.
Socrates: I´m assuming the next idea to be presented won´t be a random choice from among many ideas, but will be the logically chosen by the path set by God in eternity, and thus the practicality on the majority of highly-civilized planets.
God: Reality is infinite, but do you know what is infinite about Reality? Every object or even region of empty space has two important parameters that determine its nature: size and time. Objects of a large size, say galaxies, are studied as a separate field of science - it´s its separate school of thought - compared to objects of a smaller size, say atoms. You can ask these two questions about any object: what is its size and where along a time-axis is it located? If you study every field of science - from cosmology to quantum physics, evolutionary psychology to the history of freedom - you´ll end up needing a wall, because a wall is a square and each and every piece of knowledge will fit on a square-shaped size-time-coordinate system.
Socrates: We´ve said that Reality is infinite. Now we´ve said that every thing has a size and a time and thus fits into a size-time-diagram. What exactly in or about Reality is it that is infinite, if not the size-axis and time-axis which as a square displays every object known to man. What else could be infinite if it´s not size and time that are infinite?
Plato: Size is just a way of saying "three dimensions, each dimension´s length being a particular number of centimeters". Can one separate time from that? No: time is inherent in space and space is inherent in time. Time is called "the 4th dimension". "Spacetime" is a single word referring to either a finite or infinite spacial region with either a finite or infinite length of time. Space (to which size is inherent) and time are united, yet on a square-shaped size-time-diagram the two are on axises perpendicular to one another. Drawing the diagram like so is the easiest - and thus universal i.e. favorite among God and the majority of aliens - way of getting, into a single picture, all that science has ever found or can hope to find when it comes to regions or objects. The footnote is that the two axises might look separate but are in reality a single spacetime - separating them is done for the cosmetic reason that then all that is known by science fits into a single square picture.
God: Guess how many highly-civilized planets in my infinite realm do indeed use the square to symbolize their knowledge of everything that has a size and time? The square - not the cube nor the sphere nor the triangle - is God´s visual. It is this square that is infinite from the conclusion that Reality is infinite. It can´t be so that only size or only time is infinite because the two are connected: a single spacetime. There is infinitely large and infinitely small (spaces) and there is infinitely much past and infinitely much future (time). The universal symbol for this - God´s drawing - is a square with infinity-symbols at the ends of each axis.
Plato: Even a kid knows the following but it is worth mentioning because it, even though obvious, is God´s truth and leads to something much more significant: sizes are because of one another; the smaller makes up the larger and the larger is the reason why the smaller can exist. We can call this "sizes justify one another", the word "justify" meaning a "because"-relationship or a "is, for its existence, dependant on"-relationship. Now that we know that Reality is infinite and that everything science will ever find in Reality will fit on a wall (square), we´ll do like both aliens and God wants us to and proclaim that the size-axis and by extension the relationship between any two sizes is justification. When you ask the question: "why is there the object of X size? / how does object of X size work?" the answer inevitably will be - regardless of whether you´re asking about a galaxy or you are a medical doctor asking about an organ - to zoom in and zoom out: to look at the larger and the smaller.
God: Do you know why 99.999999% of alien planets with advanced civilizations, when they draw the size-axis on their wall, let the upward (roof) direction represent the larger and the down (floor) direction represent the smaller? It feels like a bit of a stretch to say it´s directly God´s truth / God´s way of representing time along a vertical axis. It turns out that humans tend to see more (larger things) when they lift their head, and when they bow their head way down they tend to be akin to zooming in on detail. It comes from how evolution shaped human anatomy - which is universal too, alike on all planets, and thus God´s system too. The telescopes looked upward and the microscopes downward. There´s no
other reason to represent upward on the diagram as "larger" and downward as smaller - it is basically history (evolutionary such) that determines that all planets represent up as large.
Plato: What about the horizontal time axis? Some cultures read and write from left to right and others from right to left.
God: Left-right and right-left is totally arbitrary - there was no evolutionary benefit in reading in one direction over the other, and there´s nothing in God´s work from which one can derive that one of these directions is more universal than the other. Looking at all infinitely many highly-civilized planets, it´s 50/50 whether they represent future to the left or to the right - but they do represent time horizontally because size naturally occupies the perpendicular vertical axis.
Plato: God, here´s a riddle for you: guess why you become less necessary due to the justification-relationship between sizes? Why does the vertical axis diminish your significance, at least regarding the bronze-age view of you and the view of you that combatants that think you choose sides in wars have?
God: It used to be said that I was the cause for everything. But with Reality being infinite and Reality coming as a size-time-diagram, and the relationship that runs up-down and down-up the vertical "size" axis being justification, there is one part less mystery to the existence of the world when the size-axis is infinite, meaning justification as a relationship between sizes has infinite reach. Justification means "the answer to the question: why is there X?" - X is justified (by the smaller and the larger than X). If the answer for why there is the field of science called size X i.e. why there are objects of particular size-dependant characteristics found in size X, the answer is because of the larger than X and because of the smaller than X. If that relationship between sizes runs infinitely deep into the infinitely large and into the infinitely small, then there is always a reason for the reason for the reason ... for the reason why there are X-sized objects. The same reasoning works on the entire known size-range (which runs from cosmology/the visible universe to quantum physics): there is infinitely much reason/justification as smaller sizes (below our vertical axis on our diagram) and the same applies for the larger sizes: the "first cause" (as if there were one) keeps retreating the further we look for it and it can withdraw into infinity (because Reality is infinite).
Darwin: Ever since the first question about cause and effect was asked (in ape-man days) the answering reply was that some willing divinity had wanted whatever was asked about to exist - even be it the entire known world. The same answer has been given countless times in modern days. It took quite a while of civilizational progress before the answer to "why is there a world that ranges from large to
small and small to large? Why is there everything between cosmology and quantum-physics size-wise?" was answered based on the hitherto established conclusion that Reality is infinite and that all parts of Reality fit on a size-time-diagram: the reason for why the known size-range exists is the infinitely small and the infinitely large - "our" size-range is but a part of an infinite size-range where the relationship of justification observed between any two sizes in our sizerange also exists between any sizes in the infinite size-range. The domain name www.sizerange.com was available until 2017, meaning not many people plot all knowledge on a size-time-diagram on a wall and reason that the reason why there is the vertical (size) axis in the first place is because it is infinite (giving "infinite justification" as the reason, and a valid reason it is!).
God: From concluding that Reality is infinite, you concluded that - since everything about Reality fits on a size-time-diagram - then size must be infinite, which gives a reason why there is any one size or any one size-range.
Plato: From ape-man days until modern times the word "God" was the reason for everything and anything´s existence, but ever since the discovery of the size-range being infinite God has one less "creating the world"-task to do; no longer is mystery or a will needed to explain why all fields of science (say, between cosmology and quantum physics) exist: infinite justification; infinity-symbols on each axis on the size-time-diagram.
Darwin: For the entirety of our evolution, our mental maps have incorporated things like where to go to find water, whom one´s parents are... - geographical and social maps have been our only maps. More near the modern times our maps became multi-purpose tools able to learn how to read/write and use computers. Tool-use/technology-use is something different, though, than having the entire context in which one lives be (represented as) a square with infinity symbols in each corner, with infinite size-justification and infinite time-justification being secured truths about the square. We evolved to have our largest context within which we live our lives be a geographical or social map, or something like a nation or religion (with its rituals etc) be both the binding force between people and the - rather mysterious-feeling - context and cause for one´s existence. The "theory of the world", the map which incorporated all smaller maps like geographical and social ones, used to be the nation state or the religion one belonged to. And now it´s supposed to change into the multi-detail thorough-reasoned universal size-time-diagram? Never has the largests of the contexts for our lives been so dependant on logical argument, many facts - and never before has one´s widest map which explains one´s existence been so universal meaning there is no "us vs. them" in it. It´s truly a cosmopolitan universal identity many times more complex than any old national/historical/religious context/map/identity. The upside of it is that having it as the context one lives in and which explains one´s existence is a step in a more advanced, more peaceful, more universal direction.
God: I put that map there to be found by anyone who uses rationality to go through the steps taken in this universal sequence of rational conclusions following one another. Whenever one has reasoned one´s way to that Reality is infinite, it follows that if size is infinite then that´s one pillar/foundation/idea in an existential theory. This hints that there is a theory which explains the time-axis too, and a theory for why there is something rather than nothing filling the infinite square size-time-diagram. Once one has all three pillars to the existential theory, that sculpture should predict the advent of a reproducing piece of mass such as a DNA-strand. Size being infinite doesn´t explain the chronology from the Big Bang to the emptying universe, nor does it explain why there is something rather than nothing. An infinite size-range explains a third of what´s needed for a complete existential theory, so for now we´re assuming there is a sensical chronology to the history of the Big Bang and an explanation how nothing can summon everything in the size-range. The existential theory (the theory that answers: "why do we exist?") rests on three pillars out of which the infinity of the size-range is one. Assuming two pillars (a pillar is a foundational idea on which the answers to all above questions sits - once all three pillars are in place the entirety of our Context (where and why we live our lives) is understood. Having all three pillars derived logically - like we did the infinite size-range-pillar - will be the universal Theory of Everything.
Darwin: The change of one´s grandest context is going quickly: for millions of years it was one´s family/tribe, then it became one´s ruler/nation/religion, then we went through a few -isms which were trying to dominate the whole world - capitalism winning throughout most of the world, yesterday people´s grandest context was either their bronze-age religion based on unfounded beliefs, or an incomplete science. Today it is a three-pillared existential theory which completes science by answering the large-scale chronology of the infinite time-axis and why the size-range is filled rather than empty. These three pillars taken together then predicts a world - not our world in particular but first a reproducing shape (a DNA-strand) and further on a universal world-view with pitfalls for the mind. The Grand Contexts (which explained one´s life) of nation, religion or -ism all had one thing incommon: logic (in the theory/context) wasn´t a pitfall for the mind. It´s a paradigm-shift to identify as an entity in a context that makes sense, requires a lot of logic and that our brain wasn´t adapted for (and thus the logic has pitfalls for the mind).
God: But after the world undergoes this paradigm-shift from mysterious and/or simple Grand Contexts like nation or religion, there won´t be any more paradigm-shifts in one´s identity coming: logic is the final solution - the lasting identity. Guess why 99.999999% of the planets within my infinite space has this paradigm-shifting three-pillared existential theory/Grand Context-mental map? It´s because it only takes one person to invent/discover it, and then it will spread and spread - and once a human has learned the true existential theory/"location of one´s life in the grand scheme of things", it´s impossible to revert back to some context-map that lacks pitfalls that Darwin explains but also lacks explanatory value and a scientific vibe. It´s inevitable for advancing civilizations to walk God´s path of rationality until
the brain evolved for tribe/nation/religion re-wires itself to adapt to a map/grand context/existential theory/reason for its existence consisting of logic, universal God´s sequences of thoughts with pitfalls for the mind. For millions of years we´ve had no pitfalls for the mind in our grand context-maps, nor have we had thorough explanations to why we´re here. Still 90% of the world´s population believes in a pitfall-free dogma- and ritual-based grand contexts - and bind to groups based on them (which will be a problem once the world starts to decline) - with mystery instead of logic because of our natural Grand Context being tribe/nation/religion. 99.999999% of civilizations across infinite space has the scientific rational map despite all its pitfalls (that are due to evolution wanting tribe/nation/religion as the Grand Context). We have millions if not billions of years left to live on earth - of course the Grand Context/existential theory founded on certain truth and built by rationality will outlive bronze-age pseudo-explanations to why we exist. The current world religions offer no explanatory value but they satisfy the mind´s need for a Grand Context by speaking about mysteries not meant to be understood, or unprovable statements that contradict the three-pillared built-from-certain-truth map which, unlike religions, is universal instead of dangerously "us vs. them"-mentality-creating. We should start turning down the heaters to reduce global carbon emissions, but instead we´re building up for war because of the "us vs. them"-mentality-creating nature of bronze-age Grand Contexts that satisfy but don´t explain, that dictate and order around but offer no logic/rationality, that say "don´t understand that - it´s a mystery" instead of "here´s the explanation but your evolved mind will find it to be a pitfall".
Plato: do you think that a person who is a fresh slate and given the two options - modern truth or bronze-age religion - and fully understood both options, would rather take the religious choice because it requires no thinking for yourself (instead it offers very clear rituals and dictates), contains mysteries (like a talking God who gives revelations such as "don´t eat pork") instead of logic with logic´s inevitable pitfalls for the mind (such as that it´s hard to comprehend an infinite size-range being just one pillar out of three in an existential theory that deals with Big Bang and evolution)? Also, religions offer unfounded carrots at the end of the road: you get to heaven after you die.
Socrates: I think it´s hard to choose the untruth once you know the truth. But while your mind is firmly planted in untruth it´s certainly as comfortable as a con-man´s gentle voice. Truth and rationality demand you pause and verify based on your own logic; mystery can be as easily held onto as it is comforting that, say, one is being taken care of by a God which is not an infinite uncaring sizerange, but instead somekind of willing mind that interferes with his Creation through mysteries (which beg you do not even try to understand them, unlike logic which takes effort to comprehend). The battle between the paradigm-shifting three-pillared existential theory and the bronze-age religions reveal the grandest of all pitfalls for the mind: we are, due to having lived so for millions of years, inclined toward: getting a clear list of orders and rules to obey to get a mysterious pleasant gift at the end of the road; being told that the rationale through which Creation spawns is a mystery, yet satisfying one´s thirst for an answer that can bind the group together by having "...in 6 days." as a to-be-remembered part of the creation story / existential theory. That covers rituals and dogmas. We´ve had language for hunderds of
thousands of years and science for a few hundred years - most talk ever produced ordered people around (rituals) and gave a Grand Context which could unite a group and give an "us vs. them"-attitude (dogmas). Science and logic has lead to a world-view which lacks rituals, causes as much group-cohesion and "us vs. them"-mentality as knowing math, contains ideas and rationales which are pitfalls for the mind - tasks we are barely fit to accomplish, and we accomplish them uncomfortably (we´d prefer a mystery where we can be lazy and not even try to understand it). 99.9999999% of planets have this ritual-lacking pitfall-full logically exhausing non-mysterious "think for yourself" dogma-free Grand Context for their lives because the history of a planet is so very long - we are only halfway through our earth´s history. But we better hurry up in spreading the truth based on logic because religion causes large-scale grouping ("us vs. them"-mentalities in vast groups of people) which causes wars against other groups. These wars, with exceptions for Afghanistan, Syria, Iraq and Libya are rare now because of uninterrupted economic growth, but when an economic decline, global warming or peak oil makes people feel hopeless and futureless, they´ll use their holy book-based group-bond to cause trouble - and trouble is bigger when the group is big; religion has always been a tool for making the group as big as possible. When group-binding over holy books is gone, it´s safer to have an economic decline because humans won´t have a group-mentality build in as enormous a flocks of people as religion has group-mentality build in today. The only way to get rid of large-scale uniform groups i.e. religions is to appeal to people´s reasoning. Starting from certain truth, etc...
Plato: So until we get the rational intellectual tradition to take over in the world, we´ll propably have a slow simmer of smaller wars where group-bonding is based on different interpretations of holy books - even though the current refugee crysis from Syria/Iraq is the biggest flow of refugees in a century, it´s still small potatoes compared to what´s coming if global warming, peak oil or an economic crysis hits: then we´ll regret that we didn´t do everything in our power to prevent large-scale group-bonding because a large war is worse than a small war. Once cities start drowing because of sea-level rise, or oil prices rise due to us having burned all of it, people will be desperate to survive and we´ll see them bind together based on some principle / anything incommon - and I´m sure it will be religion.
Plato: What would the case be if everyone dropped religion and instead took everything they needed from the logical existential theory?
Socrates: Well, the italians wouldn´t fight the french. Nationhood is no longer a legitimate-enough binder. Family-ties, acuaintances and friends... It´ll be wars between two tiny neighbouring villages, but multiplied all-over the world.
The universal text
I can tell you everything about God. This book won’t be a commentary on any holy book though; it won’t be in the tradition of interpretation of dogmas, sagas and mysteries. It won’t be a mystic’s spiritual book which disengages the rational analytical mind. Instead I’ll tell you everything about God in the tradition that Einstein and philosophers belonged to. It will be an algebra-like linguistic relationship-between-symbols (with just two visuals) analysis of what’s true.
I can tell you everything about God in the rational tradition – but before you think this will be an atheistic refutation of God, I might aswell reveal beforehand that God & Soul are legitimate concepts and we’ll discover their rational roots tens of thousands of years ago in this book. There is a natural narrative i.e. logical cohesion from step to step in the anatomy/history of the brain that leads up to the invention of God & Soul. The mind-processes/conscious abilities which result in God & Soul being realized and thus the ideas getting an impact on the world are utilized by simple means – it is relatively easy to just stumble upon God as an idea. This is why God & Soul date back to caveman days – they’re one of the earliest artifacts of civilization: like the spear.
To tell you everything about God I should do semantics i.e. define what I mean by the word God. I won’t mention dogmas other than The Golden Rule (do onto others like you’d want them to do onto you) not rituals other than showing universal scientific symbols (like the figures in this book) – what I’ll tell you about God will be rational/abstract/theoretical and not some pretext for following one culture’s dogmas/rituals over the other 10 000 religions’ dogmas/rituals.
I’ll show you how to for yourself figure out what God is, instead of turn you to any particular raising-paradigm/holy book.
There are three groups of people:
The intellectuals who are life-long learners learning for learning’s sake; the readers who are curious for the joy of answers and read for reading’s sake.
Those who see some reason to read/learn. I’ll tell you that the reason for making the arguments in this book popular is because almost every single war/conflict in today’s world is God-related. Knowing this book shows solidarity toward soldiers (if it’s a religious war) – teaching the idea that this book teaches can save soldiers’ lives. There is the moral argument that “it is more moral to drink & drive than to not save soldiers’ lives by helping make a book/idea popular”. If made popular, this book can make ISIS desintegrate and plunge into a civil war because nothing no longer binds them together in large a group (like “the kaliphate/the Quran/their god does).
Those who are not intellectuals/readers nor do they show solidarity toward everyone negatively impacted by misinterpretations of religions.
The name of this book hints at that I’ll try to write as closely as possible to what all revalations claimed to be: universal i.e. applicable to everyone. I’ll try to make the sequence of logic i.e. arguments i.e. what’s akin to an equation as universal as possible, meaning it can be figured out / derived no matter who or where one is. The implications of this is that this semi-revalation sequence-of-argument/logic is derived from the same Source identically on every human-like-life bearing planet in this infinite universe. This is why I call this text “The First Universal Text” preassuming the footnote that this text marks the beginning of a new intellectual tradition which is defined by its mission: to write universally. The idea in this book can be told in many less universal ways (which are maybe 0.001% of how the idea is “usually” (in the infinite universe) taught), but I’ll try to aim for the 99% usuality of how the idea is usually taught i.e. how the curriculum meta to the idea is designed. How do you design the curriculum – when a million different curriculums are possible and result in the readers learning the same idea – to be as universal as possible?
Instead of teaching the idea/science in a random order, can we derive from logic some starting points for the course (making the curriculum universal)? Yes: two starting points stand out akin to that it is logical to teach history chronologically; the two starting points for understanding God/creation/the universe are Nothingness & “I think & I am”.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
The first order of business is defining the starting points along the “Nothingness”-path & the “I think & I am” path.
Everyone spontaneously believes that he/she exists & that he/she thinks thoughts, but a man
figured this out
in the 1600s. He asked: “what in an allmighty demon would be fooling me in everything I can be fooled at/in?” What remains? Allmighty fooler on a mission to fool completely in everything.
He figured out “I exist” because there is a self necessary for a/that self to be fooled.
As a distinct line of reasoning he figured out that “being fooled is [thinking/a thought-process]”, in other words that thought exists as certainly as the self.
That is the starting point on the “I think & I exist”-path.
The man who figured this out in the 1600s, Descartes, didn’t do it to make a joke abour proving scientifically the most obvious, but he knew he had discovered a globally understandable starting point with much significance for religious conflicts. Descartes was invited to live at the queen of Sweden’s castle because of his creative rational thinking. He also invented the coordinate system ( x & y axis) to contribute to mathematics’ intellectual tradition. In this book we’ll reach Descartes’ coordinate-system invention (with size on the y-axis and time on the x-axis as the size-time diagram into which every object fits in as a coordinate) from Descartes’ “I think & BI am”-invention; the two are connected in logic but were not historically connected/associated together until I did it (400 years after Descartes invented both things).
How can you verify that what I said right now is true? I stated a historical claim about the non-associatedness of two ideas (invented by one and the same thinker). Unless you’re a history-of-science intellectual-tradition-historian you’d have a hard time verifying my claim of me deserving a prize for adding the logic that connects “I think & I am” to mathematics’ coordinate system (and the size-time diagram more specifically). Luckily the best university professors in sciences’ intellectual history are available on the internet (The Great Courses.com) and they go specifically into this topic in the “Philosophy of Mind” and “History of Science” courses – and since the best professors mention Descartes’ two ideas in one breath but not the connection between them in a 40-lecture course, you know that not even the best current minds know the connection i.e. I’ve invented something new (which is the logic that binds the two ideas together). It is fascinating, though, that one man (Descartes) invented two ideas that would be connected into a single logical sequence in which both ideas are necessary 400 years after his death.
Descartes’ certain truth (I think & I am) is in scientific circles referred to as “cogito ergo sum”, which is latin for:
- cognition (thinking)
- ergo = therefore
- sum = existence / I am.
I prefer to call it “I think & I am” though because it (especially the &-symbol) points out that they/there are two distinct conclusions – the logical pathways for deriving them are slightly different from one another.
Remember this as the word “distinction” because we’ll continue from that word when we return to this topic.
Chapter 2
I think & I am being derived as two distinct/separate statements through two distinct logical paths is quite abstract since some of the reasoning contains no pictures – the visual brainhalf is at some moments during the reasoning disengaged, making those parts of reasoning abstract. We’ll encounter much more abstract reasoning-pathways in this book, which is why it’s important to, in the beginning of the book, do reasoning about why some abstract reasonings are so hard to grasp that it took until the 21
st
century (me) to discover them.
As evolved animals we are made to maximize our re-arrangement of the natural, physical world for evolutionary benefits. We are not made to re-arrange the (non-existent; for superstitious people only) spiritual world. Nor are we made to deal with invisible mental objects – and we’ll deal with three of them – like glass windows. As long as we’ve had possessions we’ve had the ability to recognize if some possession was missing – we’ve had the cognitive system for spontaneously counting/seeing zero long before written symbols for numbers were invented. Written symbols for positive numbers were invented before the concept zero was invented. Zero, however, is one of those words which’s understanding shouldn’t conjure up any visuals. There can be plenty of linguistic explanation of features associated to the concept zero and one of them is that zer is non-visual (shouldn’t conjure up imaginations) meaning that the visuals we use for representing zero (such as the symbol 0) are just fingers pointing to a deeper tunderlying truth (which is invisible) – don’t look at the pointer/finger; but why does the brain have a hard time doing this? The simple answer is that we evolved to re-arrange the visible – we had no evolutionary benefits from the invisible.
It gets quite abstract, unintuitive and for said evolutionary reasons “unusual” (and civilized) when we’ll, later in this book, account for the explanation-based connections between three invisible (purely linguistic) ideas/concepts.
The reason why the message of this book is unintuitive (didn’t use to be an evolutionary benefit) and was discovered first in the 21
st
century has its explanation in the evolution & anatomy of the brain. Evolution and anatomy go hand in hand like history shapes architecture and intrastructure shapes history. It’s worthwhile looking at which evolution+anatomy-explanation, other wthan “we evolved to deal with the visible world and thus feel awkward about the invisible”, explains our repulsion toward the abstract/invisible eventhough our logic proves that it is true – the idea of this book is much like algebra and we should now look at why, evolution-anatomically, require a while to get as comfortable as one can get to the invisible ideas of this book.
We have two major modalities for remembering/understanding/explaining things: the visual (sensory) and the linguistic (abstract). They cooperate to let the animal adapt to its environment (by, for example, making plans based on future predictions (which themselves are based on abstract and sensory memories)). Some things that the visual brainhalf can do the abstract can’t do and vice versa. Whichever brainhalf most efficiently and strongly accomplishes a task is utilized to make the animal competative in the chase for evolutionary benefits.
This cooperation and communication between the two differentrly specialized brainhalves is a function/mutation which arose because it gave evolutionary benefits. The genes that gave rise to this
brainhalves-cooperating-function – which is based on either brainhalf specializing in either the visible or the invisible/abstract field of cognition – built on the earlier mutation/evolutionary benefit/trait of having a flexible (during the lifetime changing) part of the brain known as cortex.
The cortex first arose to “adapt the brain to the body” meaning that if the body mutated/got a birth defect/got injured/muscles got tired or weak, then still the animal could function to maximize evolutionary benefits despite its new bodily circumstances. The brain adapting to the body, in case let’s say an injury to the body, gave the organism a Super Mario-like extra life/extra chance – for example a bird with a 50% weaker left wing than right wing could, because of the flexible cortex, know/learn/acknowledge its disposition and adapt tits behavior/muscular movements to counteract the disadvantages that would’ve came about if the animal didn’t have a cortex. For example a bird meant to fly straight (seeing a butterfly in front of it) with a 50% weaker left wing would’ve sent the same muscular-activation-signal to both wings, but due to the weakness of the left wing the bird would’ve been flying counter-clockwise circles/faulty steering. With a small part of the bird’s brain that’s flexible i.e. able to learn, the saying “a cat has nine lives” became more real. This is a major benefit from the rather small mutation of having a flexible middle-man in the feedback loop from and to the muscle. Parrots obviously have a flexible part of the brain since they can learn to mimic sounds, dating back the first cortex to sometime around when birds had become complex enough to mutate just a few cortical neurons in the right place. The virtue of the very nature/anatomy of cortical neurons is that even a couple of neurons can be wired so that they 1) sense 100% activation of both wings intended by the brain, 2) sense feedback from the wings telling that the left wing only flexed with 50% of its strength, and 3) either inhibit the right wing’s activation by 50% or increase the muscular excitement to the left wing so that it reaches 150% - in either case the feedback loop with the flexible middleman makes both wings flap equally (if the bird wants to fly straight) even if one wing is injured/mutated/weak.
That is the origin/dawn/beginning of the cortex and dates it back to about 100 million years ago.
Building, through mutation, on that earliest cortex simpy enlargening the cortex would’ve allowed the cortical cells to exhibit new benefitial traits. Remembering that adapting (the brain) not only to one’s body but to the external environment too is, like cats do, building a simple mental map of the objects in one’s environment and learning from experience what can and can’t be done with them.
It’s quite straight-forward that a larger cortex – tin the animals whom need cognitive adaptiation to the environment to reap maximum evolutionary benefits – is better.
Along the story of humanity we formed hierarchical groups (king, aristocrats and slaves) and at about the same time possessions (and thus the first encounter with an abstract invisible: “my thing is missing!”) became a part of the human story.
Speaking of possessions – specifically the ownership of intellectual property – the courses I’ve seen on anthropology, archeology and Big History all fail to mention that the capitalist drive of the biggest cortexed proto-human smarting his or her way to the top of (or upward in the) hierarchy led to evolutionary pressures growing the cortex. The cortex with the most mass compared to its rival cortexes had 1) faster planning, 2) more memory and 3) more detailed social (personality) and environmental
maps. Power-hungriness – the ambition to climb upward in the hierarchy – let to the cortex growing generation after generation. Among many reasons, other than that the king orders his protectors/servants, is that females are attracted to the king because he commands the most resouces (especiallyu food-supply (which is necessary for maximizing any female’s number of offspring)). The most modern/civilized analogy/equivalent to a large food-supply is possession of ownership of intellectual property – in this case the fact that one of the world’s best archelogists/proto-human experts said that it is an explicit eunexplained mystery/question of science why the brain/cortex grew so very much during the latest era of burst-like brain-growth (the past 100 000 years). I like I said, claim that it was hierarchical upward mobility (and the king having the most babies) due to faster-, more accurate-, based on more memorized foundation- and predicting further into the future-planning (cortical abilities which correlated to the size of the cortex and which are more likely to elevate one, instead of lower one’s status, in the hierarchy). My claim that hierarchies made the cortex grow is intellectual property of my ownership.
The reasons for growth of the cortex illuminate what hkinds of thinking the brain dealt with and is made to deal with. There’s even negative incentives to think about the invisible (like zero): we base our reasoning off of and on our planning ability. In our plans we use the mediating concept “then” alot, just like we do in algebra (1+1=2 is much like 1+1 then 2) & argument. In arguments you set up premises that lead to (“then”) conclusions which in turn (“then”) become premises.
In evolution (and thus in the anatomy of our brains) sometimes plans had or resulted in a “???”-step; if some premise/step/conclusion in a plan was empty, this was our “symbol” (null) for considering the plan impossible, unfinished or not worthwhile committing as action.
Since reasoning about universal curriculum starting points like “I think & I am” and all the arguments between the start and fully explaining God/creation/the universe as 21
st
century science involves legitimate but invisible arguments (like zero), this book can feel like a plan in which one step was null/empty – and thus, despite verbal logic’s disagreement, the theory of brain-evolution predicts that the logic will feel like a plan gone wrong (or which is unfinished/faulty). The impossibility of making the steps of argument/logic in this book visual – and explicitly claiming that we’ll deal with three distinct but invisible (and thus looking the same & making the “plan” (upon which reasoning is based) feel faulty). What speaks against the feeling of “fault in the plan/reasoning”, though, are that:
the logic, eventhough triggering the feeling of “this is faulty/unfinished” by speaking of any of the invisible concepts, makes sense by being thorough logic, like solving equations, beginning from the premise/conclusion of Descartes’ certain truth.
It is possible to know the message of this book (including the three interconnected invisible ideas) without knowing or having chosen a specific curriculum for teaching the idaeas. The fact that many people can formulate the same ideas and logic between novel associations in practically infinitely many ways, and still be agreed upon and comprehendable by peers shows the disconnect between the (more or less universal) curriculum and the (unchanging) underlying idea. The idea is the scientific world-view and there are unlimited ways to communicate/teach
it. This scientific world-view is a new version, including a full explanation of God, of something that has been developing as a continuation of the history of (the curious, map-making) cortex.
Because argument/reasoning/logic is based on and is planted in planning (re-arraning real-world objects), truth/validity is based on the visualizable (“if you see it (happening in the future or further on in logic) you’ll believe it”) and we’ll be listing the facts about three unseeable objects, and world-views/diagrams which explain the universe/a coordinate-system-based existential theory is based on cognitive maps of the geographical and social environment, we’re using old cognitive abilities basically used for surviving on the savannah to do abstract 21
st
century science. This is why 21
st
century science feels awkward/unintuitive/faulty etc eventhough the logic can be put on paper like the solution of an equation, each step be verified, no faults found and thus one can feel the uniquely modern discongruity/mismatch between what one can 100% certainly know to be true, and the emotion which comes from the mismatch between, for example, an abstract diagram-based map of Reality and the cognitive million year old simple map-making-ability in which the 21
st
century abstract “map”/diagram is rooted. We’re using old abilities/mechanisms to do new things, overcoming rules like “if you can’t see one step (but “only” know it linguistically) the plan/reasoning is lacking” – we can use the number zero but thinking about its meaning in “101” (no tens) gives an awkward feeling of “something went wrong” (eventhough civilizing/reasoning/understaning/logic can subdue the awkward “something-went-wrong-because-I-can’t-see-it”-feeling. Likewise I will state “you can’t see X because...” at least three times in this book, explicitly claiming that that logic at that point will feel unintuitive (eventhough it can be put on paper and make sense) unless the feeling is subdued by civilizing. The evolved traits like “can’t see it = it doesn’t make sense yet = give it up” are why no-one discovered the message of this book until the 21
st
century. Our frontier-pushing reasoning is like a plant planted in a foundation (evolved cognitive traits like “can’t see it = don’t believe it”) which is not very fertile for plants; if we are a plant, our roots have hit some poisons in the dirt. For 21
st
century reasoning, our brain as in obstacle course. We have some genetically-based cognitive hinderances for our universal reasoning.
Chapter 3
If we call the path that begins with “I think & I am” “path A”, since we have two equally legitimate starting points to the curriculum that explains God, we can call the other path/starting point “path B”.
Definitions: all the following are synonyms: Nothing, spacetime, 0, zero, emptiness, non-existence, the void...
It’s legitimate to ask “what preceded [nothing]?” because we are in a non-empty universe which is becoming emptier by the moment (this is a well-known fact among cosmologists & the accelerating expansion/emptying is called “dark energy”). It is not legitimate, however, to ask the other “why?”-question about Nothingness: even though Nothingness has a chronological cause (because our universe will become nothing again), it doesn’t have a cause-and-effect relationship other than the chronological one, making the question: “why was there nothingness (and don’t give the chronological answer!)?” illegitimate. Nothingness is a starting point in reasoning
- it warrants no prior justification; as Kant would’ve said: it is the precondition in which everything happens: it is “a-priori” meaning none were
prior to it in a meaningful cause-and-effect relationship because nothingness doesn’t exist. What doesn’t exist denies the question: “why does it exist?” – it doesn’t! This makes Nothingness a valid starting point, path B, in a universal curriculum. Nothingness and “I think & I am” are equally good starting points. Asking “what is true about nothing?” or ”what is true in nothing?” is the starting point along path B of this universal curriculum.
One thing I usually say about nothingness is that it is emptier than we can imagine it as. Whatever your mind can produce, it’s still the mind producing it – we can’t escape the mind’s perspective i.e. its biological nature of everything it does (even when saying “nothing”) being neurons. Real nothingness is emptier than even our concept of nothingness.
The first order of business regarding this starting point was defining it, finding out why it’s universally considered a curriculum’s starting point and asking the most fundamental question about it: “what is true about/in it?”. The sentence “having nothingness...” doesn’t make intuitive sense because “having” implies you have something of existence, but having non-existence as our starting-point and having asked a question about it, knowing that we asked a question about it, is where we’ll continue when we get back to path B – but first we’ll examine path A further: we have thinker, thought and distinction (we listed two things, not one, and by doing so we’ve listed three things and thus can count three distinct things including distinction itself).
Path C
Reality, by definition, is “that of which all is part”. A single word/concept of which all is part is the exact opposite of distinctiveness. We concluded that “certainly distinction exists” and we did so in a Reality of which all is part. We are playing around with both opposites: plurality (distinction) and singularity/monotheism (anti-distinction). That Reality is one, could’ve been one starting point all by itself. If we would’ve started with Reality – the most all-encompassing – then it would’ve led us to conclude path A (that we think & exist) and it could’ve led us to ask a question about nothingness. If we would’ve taken “Reality is one” as a starting point, it would’ve opposed the starting point “there is distinction”. Usually our logic tells us that where there is opposition, there is fault in our reasoning – but this is obviously not true for considering the opposition between Reality (anti-distinction) and distinction. Both are legitimate words. The conclusion from pondering them – the elongation of path A – is that the opposition is a reason for why Reality can’t be, as thinkers & thoughts do, conceived. We never see reality as one – if we did then Descartes’ distinction between observer and object wouldn’t be true anymore. Reality can’t be seen/represented/observed/thought of fully/what-have-you because of the opposition between the starting points Reality is one and I think & I am (distinction vs. anti-distinction). It is thus not a statement about the Platonic cave-metaphor where our maps don’t correspond with (i.e. maps are distinct from) the territory; this is a statement about the “access denied” given to all distinct observers (and all observers are by Descartes’ definition distinct) to Reality – it’s a fundamental opposition (between distinction and anti-distinction, us and Reality) which makes Reality not even represented if there were no limits to representation (because the very act of representing is distinctioning). Regardeless of whether there are brains/computers to represent things (which, factually, there must be because as brains we define what represents what), but even if representation could be,
in a thought experiment, presumed to happen without us or computers - then still that representation couldn’t represent That of which all is part. This is a very subtle point which differentiates my way of not seeing Reality from Plato’s way of not seeing Reality – I put emphasis on the opposition between distinction and anti-distinction, Plato noted that mental maps are not physical territories. Both ways of not seeing Reality are true and legitimate, but my way means more: it means that regardless of brains ever existing and “representation” being as loosely/vaguely defined by the universe as it can be in the universe, the distinction-anti-distinction-opposition still makes Reality infinitely much more than there can ever be to it. Let’s say that the part there is to it now represents “all of Reality” – then distinction-anti-distinction-opposition holds true and thus we get that there is more to Reality even than whatever was represented, no matter how it was represented. So even if we say that however much there is to Reality may represent itself (Reality), then still the opposition between thinker & thought’s distinction holds true and causes an opposition with the also true oneness of reality (anti-distinction).
21
st
century science is supposed to be subtle. The conclusion, however, from all of this is that there is more to Reality than any representation (regardless of brains) can represent i.e. Reality is infinite. Exactly in which ways (size and time, energymass & spacetime) Reality is infinite we’ll consider in the continuation of this path A. Though this seems like a lot of mental effort reading (the reason why it’s new is because it’s hard) but it is all necessary to lead up to an existential theory which includes all possible knowledge about God, and thus this book will have geopolitical impacts on conflicts. Usually Nobel prizes are awarded for finding something new about some size in the (thank’s to me) proven-to-be infinite Reality – what about being the first one to prove that Reality in fact has infinitely much to it?
Path A (thinker & thought) and path C (Reality is 1 i.e. antidistinction) both lead us to conclude that there´s infinitely much to Reality because of the distinction-antidistinction-opposition.
It´s worthwhile pausing on a sentence like that like it was programming source-code because it contains unseeable concepts (distinction, antidistinction, their opposition) and the infinity of Reality.
If we confine on path B (nothingness) and the fact that we can ask questions about it, let´s ask:
- which laws of nature are inherent in nothingness? Which unavoidable truths are true because of the rational framework of nothingness? Which equations couldn´t
not
be true?
0=0 i.e. nothingness is itself should be true. Zero does not equal five nor does five equal two. We´ve thus found that mathematics is inherent to nothing i.e. in empty space a triangle is not a sphere and all other geometric truths hold true.
E=mc
2
is one of those true equations – Einstein´s most famous equation. All I need to know about this equation are the meaning of the five words:
energy
equals
mass
times
the speed of light
squared
.
“The speed of light squared” is a reference to spacetime because speed is distance (space) over time. This, in the equation mentioned spacetime, is connected to “energy equals mass” through the multiplication sign. “Energy equals mass” warrants the word “energymass” as a synonym for Existence/the universe/”all movement, shining etc. (verbs) and the things that move, shine (nouns)”.
There are so many different explanation-traditions for E=mc
2
. Usually the practical real-world application-tradition overlaps with the mathematical tradition – theoretical physicists cooperate with experimental physicists. All I know about those explanatory views/intellectual traditions is that space (three dimensions) and time obviously are connected, warranting the word spacetime. But I also know that mass is made into energy in nuclear power plants and energy is made into mass in particle accelerators – these technologies prove that all energy equals mass and vice versa, warranting the word energymass. Energymass feels a lot like spacetime and is found in the same E=mc
2
-equation as spacetime. Energymass can be symbolized as ∞ - infinite existence while spacetime and 0 are synonyms.
Energymass (existence, ∞) and spacetime (zero, nothing) (and equations) is all there is to the universe/Reality. All the fundamental parts – the empty framework with its laws of nature and energymass –are in the same E=mc
2
equation. There´s nothing more to the cosmos than energymass & spacetime together (along with equations) and all of those parts are represented in one equation.
Since E=mc
2
is true in nothingness (like 0=0 is), we´ve reached “mentioning existence (starting point C)” from starting point B (nothing).
E=mc
2
being true at the very core of nothingness (like 0=0 is) tethers energymass (existence) to the very core of the framework. Existence is thus necessary if there is nothing (path B summons path C).
Existence (energymass) and non-existence are the core components of our Reality. They are connected and mutually interdependent as is shown in E=mc
2
. They are the space between and “behind/in” objects and the objects themselves, and all rules governing them – there´s nothing more necessary for a full explanation of energymasspacetime/Reality.
The more detailed description, coming from path A´s infinity of Reality, is that there is infinitely much energymasspacetime: the framework is infinite (spacetime is infinite) and what fills it is infinite (energymass/existence is).
The three paths have merged: path A (I think & I am, distinction) led to path C (there´s more to Reality than can be represented due to distinction-antidistinction-opposition) and path B led to defining Reality as energymasspacetime and making existence tethered to nothingness.
In the above sentence we have the seeds to:
- the chronological explanation with its infinite time-line, our universe acceleratingly emptying (observed fact) and nothingness having (laws of nature like E=mc
2
) existence (∞) tethered to it.
The “why existence?”-question – existence exists tethered to non-existence and only under those circumstances does it make sense for existence to exist.
Defining Reality as energymasspacetime (with the footnote from path A: that it is infinite (size-wise and time-wise)) and since it´s one and unseeable (due to distinction-antidistinction opposition) calling it God or monotheism. If you do not worship the grandest (that of which all is part) then I don´t know what you are worshipping.
We don´t need any other concepts than those we´ve gotten from the universal starting points:
Infinity of Reality (infinitely small, infinitely large and infinitely much time)
Reality defined as energymasspacetime i.e. we exist in nothing and therefore it makes sense for us to exist; infinite nothingness and infinite creation.
The monotheistic nature of Reality: distinction (us)-antidistinction (it) being opposites, making it (Reality) inaccessible for representation (for the thinker & thought-realm) i.e. there´s more to Reality than any representation can validly claim to represent.
An infinite size-range & time-range (infinite spacetime as Reality is energymasspacetime and infinite) of E=mc
2
´s existence-nonexistence-duality (energymasspacetime) and distinction-antidistinction.
Infinite size-range; infinite time-range.
Of energymasspacetime (a synonym for Reality/God)
Distinction (separate entities; the infinitely many things) and anti-distinction (Reality is one) opposition (meaning it´s unintuitive but true – we didn´t evolve to consider “two simultaneous different ´events´ that co-exist/are the same” to be a valid reasoning).
The above three points stumble through the evolved mind´s obstacle course with its unseeabilities & abstract oppositions and is, taken as a whole, a full account for why we (and anything/Reality) exists.
An existential theory is a theory which explains any existing thing´s existence – the universally accepted existential theory has the 3 sub-ideas just listed. This makes it unintuitive/repulsive to our one-answer-seeking evolved logic, but all three sub-ideas are necessary and can´t be summarized into a smaller compartment than “infinite size & time with infinitely much spacetime (nothing) and infinitely much existence/energymass, and all of it contains distinction-antidistinction-opposition”.
How do we know that not something was left out? Let´s draw a size-time-diagram in which every coordinate is a location of energymasspacetime (a part of Reality) with infinity-symbols symbolizing infinite size and infinite time. Every object has some coordinate on this diagram and thus ever thing gets is explanation from this diagram.
All of this – three distinct starting points to paths which merge, the philosophy arising from and which is based on E=mc
2
, three sub-ideas that can´t be further summarized to the existential theory – all this makes for a very 21
st
century theory which´s unintuitiveness (rebellion against evolved logic´s norms) is the reason for why it wasn´t discovered until now. It will likely resemble a mental mess unless you rehearse it and subdue the pitfalls of evolved logic (like “opposites can´t both be true” or “the invisible is false”) using thorough argument.
All previous existential theories start from a single idea (like “God created…” or “the earth arose from an egg”) while my theory rests on three ideas and the curriculum teaching it has three starting points/paths.
The idea (existential theory), though, is true and is universal. It explains how, when the universe becomes nothing again (as it is observed to be becoming), path B shows that nothingness mentions existence and it would break laws of nature (would be absurd) if existene never came to be in a framework that mentions it in E=mc
2
. This coincides with the merging of paths A & C which state that the time-axis (Reality=energymasspace
time
) is infinite) is infinite. The conclusion being that there has been and will be infinitely many Big Bangs (which I´ll get a Nobel prize for discovering).
In this book I’ve explained that God (being a synonym for Reality) is an “infinite size-time-diagram of energymasspacetime at every coordinate and distinction-antidistinction-opposition”. It is a full-fledged theory of what constitutes Reality. Having understood this text makes it impossible to believe in a revelation-giving God that picks sides in wars like Trump’s God or ISIS’ God.<
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen, Sweden
The First Universal Text
Advancing civilzation to end religious conflict
To help & show solidarity toward soldiers...
They´re fighting religious wars where the assumption of a small minority calling themselves muslims is that God created earth & gave a violent revalation to prophet Muhammed...
If another theory is proposed to explain why Reality was created & how/why humans came to exist, then the violent revalation & holy war end.
The course which teaches this must be as a universal curriculum designed to maximally convince. It appeals both of the motivations of helping soldiers and to learning for learning’s sake (being an intellectual).
It has two starting points:
certain truth (agreement on that we think & we exist)
Nothing (which “doesn’t exist” or exists a-priori (without previous further necessary explanation)).
The fastest way to help soldiers using a universal all-convincing course is like listening to rap music: I’ll connect concepts in a sequence so fast you’ll:
miss alot the first time you isten
listen to it multiple times to catch something new every time
see that I use different ways to present the same set of concept
There are three groups of people:
the intellectuals whom learn for learning’s sake
those who take the moral argument of having solidarity with soldiers (that it’s more moral to drive a car after a bottle of vodka than to not save soldiers’ lives by teaching a course)
those who have to be schooled by an authority.
Have you asked something about:
what God is?
I can tell you everything about God.
First of all: there are two intellectual traditions: the unbound creativity of romanticism & cold rationality. If I were writing in the romantical tradition I would spend effort writing beautiful confusing metaphors and sagas – the opposite of which is like PowerPoint bulletpoints with facts & concepts about God. This is about seeking truth in the rational manner – analysis (thought-through argument) over spontaneous gambling.
I try to create a true argument that can be pumped out of propaganda-loud speakers at ISIS, Boko Haram, Al-Shabaan, Al-Qaida, the taliban etc.
If I can tell enough rationality about their God then their fighting-morality, group-loyalty, mission and cohesion disintegrates.
What I produce is kind of as learning-intensive as the theory of relativity, but if put on loud-speakers on the religious wars’ front-lines is more powerful than any cannon.
My canon that outperforms any cannon is a theory/understanding that can be taught in limitlessly many ways – I might have 5000 concepts and you can talk them in any sequence which gives X many courses that teach my theory/science/world-view.
Instead of teaching the science in a random order, can we derive from logic some starting points for the course (making the curriculum scientific/universal)? Yes – 2 starting points akin to that it is scientific/universal to teach history chronologically.
The two starting points are Nothingness and “I think & I am”.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
The first order of business is defining the starting points along the “Nothingness”-path & the “I think & I am” path.
Everyone spontaneously believes that he/she exists & that he/she thinks thoughts, but a man
figured this out
in the 1600s. He asked: “what in an allmighty demon would be fooling me in everything I can be fooled at/in?” What remains? Allmighty fooler on a mission to fool completely in everything.
He figured out “I exist” because there is a self necessary for a/that self to be fooled.
As a distinct line of reasoning he figured out that “being fooled is [thinking/a thought-process]”, in other words that thought exists as certainly as the self.
That is the starting point on the “I think & I exist”-path.
The starting point on the Nothingness-path is a starting point because no prior reason/justification is possible/necessary. What doesn’t exist need not be explained.
It is said that when the concept 0 was invented the ancients got afraid of it because out [energymass neurons]/brain cannot properly represent something emptier than neurons/brain. Nothingness is emptier than we see it as because we are made of and are using somethingness to represent/see/talk about Nothingness.
The next conclusion – the next step on a logical progression – along the ”I think & I am”-path is that there is distinction. There is distinction between thinker and thought. We listed two conclusions – right? – I think AND I exist. Distinction is the separation between thinker & thought. Distinction exists and is a legitimate word.
The conclusion following along the Nothingness-path is that there are laws of nature i.e. Nothingness is non-absurd. As an example: Nothingness would be absurd i.e. it is not true that a thing is not itself i.e. that 1 is not 1 . It’s not like 1=2 now, but now 1=3, and now 1=254. Laws of nature such as 1=1 are stable over time and do not change. Another law of nature that makes the universe non-absurd is that a triangle is not a sphere (geometric truths). Another law of nature, necessary for a rational cosmos, is E=mc
2
.
The next step along the “think & I am”-path is that the distinction exists in something (or nothing). There is one “that of which all is part”, called anti-distinction, in which distinction exists. Reality is one.
The next step along the “Nothingness - E=mc
2
”-path is that there is a law of nature that states, in order for the universe to be non-absurd, that: “if something, say E=m, is mentioned then it must also [exist/be summoned]”. It would be absurd for Nothingness to state “E=mc
2
” forever without E=m (energymass) ever existing.
Footnote: E=mc
2
– the summoning of energymass – is summoned in the smallest spaces simultaneously resulting in a
dense
Big Bang.
Sub-footnote: I drop Nobel prizes like they were growing on trees: the rationale for how to get from Nothingness to Something and the prediction that the Big Bang should be dense is valuable knowledge.
The next step along the “I think & I am”-path is that observation/representation is distinction. This is a repetition of the step where we said “distinction is a legitimate word i.e. there are
both
thinker AND thought”. We, as observers/representers, are in the distinction-realm – as opposed to the anti-distinction-realm – when we observe/represent/always. This means that we, due to distinction – anti-distinction – opposition, do not see [“that of which all is part”/Reality].
The next step in the Nothingness-path is that there is not just one size. There is a range of sizes – each with energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
) – large to small / small to large. Size & time are connected as spacetime. Everything/anything we know about has a size and a time.
The next step along the I think & I am –path is that, since we do not see Reality (that of which all is part) there is more to Reality than can be [known/distinctly made sense of/hypothesized]. Based on the conclusion that everything has a size & time, there must be more sizes & times than can be hypothesized.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
I switch between the two in a universal way.
I can’t do more universal than tasking the two starts of a universal course and intertwining the logical steps step by step.
I would like to show you two synonymous diagrams. The difference between them is in how time is represented. The difference is the same as between a rolled-out video-tape and a TV.
Imagine ten TV screens stacked in a column. Imagine that the topmost TV shows the largest size, the lowestmost TV shows the smallest size and there is a continuum of TVs/sizes between them.
The other synonymous diagram has size on the vertical axis, time on the horizontal axis and every coordinate represents all of the following:
- a size-time (every object has a size and a time)
- a sub-field of science
- a piece of energymasspacetime.
So far we’ve looked at three different concepts – the self, spacetime and anti-distinction – which, if you see them, look the same. The self can’t be seen because one is it, spacetime can’t be seen because it’s emptier than neurons can represent it as, and all of Reality (anti-distinction) can’t be seen because representation is distinction.
These three concepts are inter-connected, though: the self exists as neurons in spacetime, the self and spacetime exist in Reality. Reality is defined as all of energymasspacetime and the self exists as a location within a size-time.
Three unseeable concepts with connections between them.
The phrase “God created earth” is parallelled/rivalled by the phrase “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime and distinction-anti-distinction-opposition”. Both claim to be the explanation to why we exist.
The validity of an existential theory (a theory for why there is existence) is tested by whether it can predict a DNA-strand (and thus the evolution up to humans). If a theory predicts that there ought to be a DNA-strand (at some coordinate in the infinite size-time-diagram) the theory has the scientific predictive quality that a theory needs.
Again, keeping with the universal tradition of this text, just like with the “I think & I am” & “Nothingness” dual paths that I intertwined, the continuation of this book will be written as it is written by others aiming at writing something that can be derived from science (empty space in front of oneself) no matter where in our infinite universe one is located.
The two paths that we meet now are that “the ancients wrote about God/Reality” (how to make
religion make sense in a modern context) and “the existential theory”.
If you want to make the ancients’ concepts God and Soul make sense, God is just a synonym for Reality. I tend to ask religious people:
Is God:
a part within “that of which all is part”/Reality,
a synonym for “that of which all is part”/Reality, or
“beyond”/”outside” Reality (which doesn’t have an outside; anything “outside” is unreal)?
Obviously God has to stay real (there is no spacetime for Him to be located in “outside” energymasspacetime, and I put “outside” in quotes because energymasspacetime has no outside), and God cannot be smaller than (a part of) “that of which all is part”. Allah akbar / God is all-encompassing means there is nothing greater than Him, which is true about the word Reality (energymasspacetime / “that of which all is part”). We already said that “that of which all is part cannot be observed/represented” (meaning there is more to it than infinitely much hypothesizing/representing) and this is said about God too. We also know that Reality is one (not 2 or 0.75) and this is the meaning of the word monotheism. The three things we know about God/Reality – that it is one, that one cannot see it and that there’s nothing greater – are too many for the Reality-God-connection (as synonyms) to be coincidence. The ancients had access to the speculation about how we as selves are distinct and therefore Reality (the most all-encompassing), due to it being anti-distinction, is unobservable. God comes as infinite (1) size-time-axises of (2) energymasspacetime and (3) distinction-anti-distinction-opposition, because this three-idea theory predicts the dawn of a DNA-strand.
“That the self can’t be seen because one is it” is an analysis the ancients would’ve had access to too using their civilized survey of what is true about the unavoidable observer in every observation. This makes science warrant and want the word “soul” as a synonym for the “thinker” we looked at in “thinker & thought exist”.
This should’ve answered the question: “which parts of religion make sense in a modern context?”. God and Soul are useful concepts – and we know much more about both thanks to science than the ancients did. It shouldn’t come as a surprize that the scientific lense’s minimalistic interpretation of religion makes a lot of ritual and dogma unscientific i.e. not universal. I couldn’t possibly add any ritual to this book’s curriculum except that the size-time-diagram is a square so tattoo parlors should see a spike in people wanting that universal diagram tattooed on themselves, along with a triangle (with its tip originating from the center size/center of the square) representing evolution’s increasing complexity/fine-tuning and size of the DNA. It’s a 3D diagram – the square and the triangle being in two different dimensions.
Notice the square (size-time-diagram) and the triangle (evolution) which together are the existential theory, if you remember that E=mc
2
gave us that it is energymasspacetime and the opposition between distinction and anti-distinction. No matter your location in this infinite space (space of the human size is infinite because the size-range is infinite) you’d arrive at the same picture and text.
Wearing this on t-shirts is as universal of a ritual as we will get.
Let’s break down the existential theory’s (God’s) three ideas:
an infinite size-range (with infinite time because size and time are connected as spacetime). Take your body’s size as an example – it is because of the size larger than itself and the sizes smaller than itself. Sizes are because of one another. If the size-range is infinite then this gives infinitely many reasons for any size existing, in other words “the first cause” it retreating infinitely far into the small and large. This explains why a size-range such as our known range exists at all. This is pillar one of the three-pillar existential theory.
of energymasspacetime. Spacetime is emptier than our neurons can represent it as and human endevours are for evolutionary reasons meant to deal with energymass (existence). E=mc
2
is the equation where energymass is mentioned in the E=m-part and the speed of light squared (speed is space (distance) over time) mentions spacetime – in the same equation; they’re connected. This is a pillar of the existential theory because it explains why there can be something (at every size): it is intertwined (and exists in) Nothingness. In Nothing, Something.
distinction-anti-distinction-opposition i.e. the opposition between distinction (like separate observers) and anti-distinction (defined as “that one of which all is part”). We started this book with two paths: “I think & I am” (and distinction between them) and Nothingness (which is intertwined with Somethingness/energymass). Both are correct conclusions eventhough we need “both-and -thinking” to deal with the facts that Reality is both one and has distinction in it.
This three-pillared/three-idea existential theory rivals “God created the universe” and predicts that the Big Bang ought to begin as dense (because E=mc
2
is true in the smallest spaces) and end in dark energy/accelarating cosmis expansion i.e. that the universe becomes emptier until a region of Nothingness appears again – the universe hates a vacuum and since E=mc
2
is true in that vacuum, the vacuum cannot remain empty. This three-pillared theory predicts the dense beginning of the universe and the empty end of the universe – both the dense beginning and emptying future can be observed with telescopes. The theory also predicts, since it has an infinite size-range, that there should be a DNA-strand and thus evolution.
God thus can only remain as three possibilities:
God is a synonym for Reality (and thanks to this book, we know the three-pillared theory which goes into detail about God); God is “that of which all is part”, energymasspacetime.
God is an unnecessary assumption – the word God can be dropped out of our vocabularies because the theory works fine stand-alone. We don’t need a synonym for Reality since we do have the word Reality already, so we deny God because it comes with so much superstitious baggage.
God is added - just like Santa Claus, elfs, fairies and unicorns can be added – to the theory eventhough it doesn’t make sense to add it. There is no spacetime “outside” energymasspacetime and hence to place for a God to be; God cannot be separate/distinct from Reality without being unreal.
This book, by being universally written:
proves that space is infinite (because there is infinitely large) and thus other planets with human life should write the exact same book,
presents a universal idea in a near-universal way (distinction between the curriculum and the science itself),
advanced civilization / is the pinnacle of human civilization when it comes to the big questions like God, Soul and the existential theory,
can cause skisms within religious war-groups i.e. end war for religious reasons,
is a propaganda-weapon to be put on loud-speakers on the current wars’ front-lines.
I thought it fitting, to keep the curriculum universal, to add “what this book can do for humanity” right after the chapter about the existential theory. The next chapter will deal with evolution (beginning from a DNA-strand).
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen, Sweden
Author
yonis
Posted on
15/03/2017
15/03/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Collection 15 3 2017
Plato and Socrates, God and Darwin
Plato and Socrates were resurreced to have a conversation in the 21st century.
Plato: What´s the state of the world? Everything we do emits carbon and those emissions will raise the sea-levels to unbearable heights.
Socrates: What´s unbearable?
Plato: Many people will have to move and there´s no spare space to move to. They´ll be refugees fleeing from water.
God joined the conversation: But that´s 60 years into the future.
Plato: Another “state of the world”-thing is that oil is a limited resource and we´ll run out of if.
Socrates: But that´s also a century in the future – before that oil prices will rise causing increasing poverty.
Plato: So we´re at the pinnacle of the world regarding these two points: it´s like we´ve climbed a mountain and there´s never been and will never be as good a time as there is already and that there´ll be the coming century. But we´ve got millions of years left on the planet – how do we make the inevitable decline of global wealth more bearable, less destructive? The fall is coming – how do we dampen the blow? From the top of the mountain there´s only downhill to go.
God: I evolved you into a group-dwelling species and you form groups around nationhood, around language, around favorite football teams… Pretty much everything seems to be able to bind you humans together – which is another way of saying that you are bound apart from another group of anoter nation/language/football team. You, as seen throughout history and is seen today, find power in numbers and…
Plato: We fight wars – we fight them as groups, meaning something binds us together. The more serious the binding force the more outrageous the war. The larger the number of people that identify as some group the more war morale and power in numbers they experience.
Socrates: How do we, preparing for the coming downhill collapse of global wealth, make groups as tiny and the least bound together as possible? There are countless groups in the world – what could impact them all so that their bonds become more arbitrary to them?
Plato: Nationhood is already a terrible binder because everyone knows that it´s a human invention. Race was a big deal in Hitler´s era but the past 70 years has tought us that there is excellence in every race and travel/cosmopolitan cities has shown us that race – which is most notable in skin color – is a primitive and weak binder. Plus it´s unchangeable: if future wars are fought based on racial bonds – which sounds ridicilous – there´s nothing we can do to prevent people from grouping according to skin-color. If you want to fight a war you must have something more significant than race to dehumanize the other group, and it´s no longer possible to dehumanize based on racial differences because we´ve met people of every race and seen that the difference caused by race is too small to warrant dehumanization and war.
God: If race or nation were your strongest binders, they´d be as weak as can be and that´s good for the future wealth-collapse. You should want weak binders that people are indifferent to – that prevents large-scale wars.
Plato: The context that we´re in is of a coming decline of wealth – the sooner the better, actually, because every moment that passes releases more carbon dioxide and burns more oil. If we could all become as civilized as can be, which means to have group-bonds that won´t lead to large-scale war when the economy turns down, then we´d be as prepared as can be for the future downturn.
Socrates: What were the causes for the latest wars – the Afghanistan and Iraq/Syria wars – to escalate into as big as they were?
Plato: Hussein in Iraq wasn´t a civilized man – he did not follow the maxim “know thyself”. He had group bonds that made him want to enrich his people (over other people) based on a cult of personality.
God: He basically didn´t know himself in regards to that power-hungryness/ambition is infinite – he acted out of greed and out of a group-bond to the Iraqi people: he wasn´t a global citizen nor educated to know himself. He annexed a United Nations member, ridiculing the United Nations – setting a dangerous president which basically would´ve made a new international rule that says “you can annex your neighbours and no international entity will stop you”. Other nations seeing Hussein succeed might have done the same thing – causing a global set of “eat your weaker neighbour”-wars. And if he or his successor would have, in the coming 50 years, developed a nuclear bomb then the United Nations couldn´t have stopped his expansionist plans but would´ve had to agree to let him take whatever he wants. And like said: he wanted infinitely much because he didn´t understand his greed, and he was group-bound to a set of people instead of to everyone.
Plato: So if civilizing TV-programs or books would´ve reached out to Hussein, making him not group-bind as strongly as he did, he wouldn´t have killed others to enrich (what he thought was) his group. Celebrity and power (from his cult of personality-style state) got to his head. If he would´ve been more of a thinking person instead of reacting like an animal to the celebrity (and wanting to “give back to his fans”) he wouldn´t have been such an issue in the eyes of The World Police. The aftermath of the Iraq war was religiously bound groups.
Socrates: What about the Afghanistan war?
Plato: Afghanistan was harboring terrorists – the leaders there too felt power from the celebrity/cult of personality and you don´t need many people praising you to get that vibe of “we´re strong”. Why did they harbor terrorists? Religious bonds and the fact that any billion-dollar army looks impressive, triggering the emotion “we´re strong”, no matter how insignificant in comparison to USA´s army. Again a civilizing mission to that part of the world to educate people about themselves would´ve helped: to educate about the evolved emotional repertoire and how it gets triggered into feeling “we´re too strong to mess with” from basically anything modern. Plus their faith in the Quran – that God is on any Quran-reader´s side rather than the Christians´/Atheists´ side.
God: So your latest wars were basically a combination of uneducated people who didn´t have a clue about what evolution made the emotional repertoire into, and the derivatives of that such as that seeing 500 armed men gives the illusion of incomprehendable might no matter how trivial that army is compared to USA´s. Non-understanding of the emotional repertoire and what it is used to i.e. what it has been triggered by during millions of years. And a strong group-binding force specifically about me, God.
Plato: And this will not end until humanity combines its best information with its mass-communication media in a sufficient way to civilize everyone, and until the God-debate is finally settled. A little “know thyself”-civilizing education and an argument that completes the theory of God.
God: So if you don´t have a civilizing/educating mission through your TV-screens nor finish your knowledge about Me, the recent wars in Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan is what the future wars due to decline of the oil reservoirs and the sea-level rise will resemble.
Plato: Religion is the strongest changeable binding force – it makes wars become the scale of nations instead of local turf gang wars. If the world is impoverishing due to global warming and peak oil, religion is the factor that decides whether group-bonds i.e. armies are scaled as large as nations or the size of families.
God: Indeed – your various claims about me is what decides whether you´ll have a World War 3 clash of civilizations with collapsed nations adhering to what they call God´s law (like sharia), but if you get rid of all the false claims in religion then the inevitable coming decline will be bearably stable because the biggest army you can gather is not gathered with soldiers swearing oaths on holy books. The context is that of a coming decline but it is the debate about God that decides whether it´ll be with gargantuan strong group-bonds like those caused by religion, or more rational group bonds based on nation or cooperation over material goals.
Socrates: What if, in the aftermath of the Iraq war against Hussein, there wouldn´t have been religion (or at least multiple different religions)? Would the men that now made up ISIS have been able to organize and bind together into big groups? They had the idea that no modern nation resembles the kaliphate that the Quran demands – so without the Quran: would they have had an ideology/mission that they would´ve fought to accomplish? The Quran gave them both a “holy”/super-human group-bond based on a holy book which twists the reader´s prioritizes into accomplishing the holy mission of setting up sharia law in a kaliphate (and expanding that islam as much as possible i.e. world-domination). It´s impossible to imagine world events going as bad at they did – with large cities laid to ruin – without the debate about God being ongoing. If the debate had been finished it´s impossible to imagine the latest wars.
Plato: As long as the God-debate is unfinished, there´ll be holy-book-based group-bonds (meaning large numbers of people acting as one). Right now the secular armies of the world are keeping wars like this from erupting by military means, but that´s obviously not the best solution for the problems caused by the God-debate and its bonding abilities. Going forward, into the inevitable decline of increasing global poverty, its best to read about and keep up to date on the God-debate, adding to it if possible.
Socrates: Wasn´t Libya in a choice between western values and islamic values, with around 50% of the population on one side and 50% on the other, and because of the lack of a solution to the God-debate the idea “God want´s sharia law” was in the top ten causes for why the country destabilized? The debate could just as well have been between promiscuity vs. marriage, but because the God-debate isn´t settled one of the major forces that plunged the country into chaos was the belief that God had written the Quran. If it could´ve been proven that God definitely didn´t write the Quran, the civil war would´ve been less heated.
God: Future wars, the ones that inevitably will erupt from economic decline due to unpreventable forces like global warming or peak oil, can either be large-scale ones like those of the recent past or just crime and civil unrest like seen in many “stable” countries that don´t make the news because there´s no large-scale armed grouping. Large-scale and religion are like the two sides of a coin – they´re a pair. Bonding causes larger chaos and religion causes bonding. Whether you´ll have major wars or just civil unrest once the economic decline comes and is impossible to roll back depends on how well you handle the God-debate. The God-debate is the most major debate/military issue you can have in this pre-collapse era. If this debate is not held within a limited time-frame, you will have large-scale group-bonding based on religion and those wars will be too grand for letting the mind debate the abstract science that is the God-debate. In this era of relative calmness before the storm, the most important issue for you to debate is the big question: what is God? It´ll save millions of lives – as it would have if it had been completely debated before the Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan wars. The outcome won´t be that humans morph into angels – we´ll still have deaths during the coming and forever lasting impoverishment of humanity, but the chaos can be reduced thousand-fold if humanity accomplishes to civilize itself by using its mind to completely comprehend those major questions that make “religion” and “religious wars” into existing phenomena. And the time for engaging the God-debate it limited: once religious bonding makes things heat up into large scale conflict due to “us vs. them” group loyalties in a world in decline, it´ll be much harder to get a message – an abstract scientific one – across.
Chapter 2: Revelations
Darwin was resurrected and summoned to the conversation.
Darwin: Humans have always like revelations.
Socrates: What do you mean by “liked revelations”?
Darwin: There are eras of revelations. At the dawn of ape-man some warlord must have figured out that it boost fighting morale to have every commandment be divine rather than a choice by man. This warranted a priest or a priest-king who led the war as a commander. Those tribes who had mere men (and proclaimed that mere men made decisions) would´ve had a lower fighting morale than the tribe with divine revelation-commands in war. It was a simple con-artist tactic for the commander to say that his commands came from a divine source – and many propably saw through the scam – but even if it boosted morale just a little bit (and terrified the enemy tribe just a little bit in those superstitious early ape-man days) it was an evolutionary advantage. Soon all tribes adopted the same tactic because it gave evolutionary benefits in tribal wars. Another parallell theory which doesn´t contradict the first one is that parents wanted to raise their kids in as safe a mindset as possible, and thus invented that some invisible deity was the cause of earthquakes, disease, etc and should be worshipped. Or perhaps someone worshipped his ancestors and when asked “why?” he invented that they were divine – both to get more respect to himself and to have the other tribe-members worship those parents. A tool of war in the first theory, an explanation to everything mysterious (rather have an earthquake be a divine will than to have no theory about it whatsoever) or the want for celebrity and respect in the third theory. Gods are simply bound to exist at the dawn of language. People have always liked revelations. A very good book can be written by a totally unknown author or the same book can be written by the most famous author – it´s more likely to be considered worthier a book if it´s written by someone who already has celebrity and respect. The same goes for revelations: a revelation is something which´s author has celebrity and respect, making the revelation “seem better”/sell more. That´s why ad campaigns for cars or perfumes rent as respected of a person as is possible to advertise it. A revelation is to have a statement get respect because it was given by something super-human (a divinity). Something super-human (in eras where such superstitions were not scoffed at) as the author of some statement made more people buy into that statement – we respect (or respected when those things were still believed in) the super-human/divine and we respect their statements/revelations.
Plato: Then there´s another kind of revelation that got respect. Descartes who lived in the 1600s got respect, fame and was invited to live with the Queen of Sweden because he had gotten an idea which certainly told us something true. Revelations can either be con men´s statements like they were from ape-man and forward, or they can actually claim something which is verifyably true. Descartes, propably having his mind overcrowded by the masses of revelations that had accumulated to his time, asked: “what would be true if all my statements were false?”. What would remain if I tossed all my knowledge and ideas into the trash? Are we stuck with countless unverifyable statements, some contradicting eachother, not knowing which ones are true and which ones are not? Obviously not since statements about architecture are obviously true since they build houses, while contradictory statements do not. So Descartes dared to throw all his knowledge in the trash to see what remained. He found certain truth: that he exists – because even if he was wrong or was being fooled in everything he thought to be true, there´d still be a “he” there. He certainly exists no matter what. Same thing goes for thoughts: being wrong or being fooled is a thinking-process so even if he was wrong or was being fooled in everything he thought, there´d still be thought.
Socrates: So he figured out that he thinks and he exists.
God: These are not one statement – they are two.
Socrates: What does that mean?
God: I´ll tell you later – just agree with me that there is distinction between thinker and thought – that the statements are two. It´s building on certain truth, and it´s possible to build a whole… whatever it is that “saves the world” from the coming economic decline by having everyone build on certain truth until the God-debate is settled. Remembering “distinction” (between thinker and thought) will prevent the horror-scenario of large-scale future wars between people group-bound by religions, and instead – since everyone built a whole world-view on certain truth – have a more stable decline in the future. “Distinction” i.e. remembering that there are two certain truths (thinker and thought) is a step on the way toward a plan that will save humanity from destroying itself as much as it would if we didn´t build our world-views on certain truth.
Plato: So after an era of “revelation”-revelations invented by anyone for whatever purpose, coming from Darwin´s ape-man´s revelations, Descartes, in the 1600s, invented a revelation – certain truth: I think and I exist – which got him invited to the Queen of Sweden for the rest of his life. People have always liked revelations and even verifyable truth-claims like Descartes´ get respect.
God: I have set it as true that each one of you humans can verify in your own mind´s eye that you do certainly exist and that there certainly is thought – and thus there is distinction.
Darwin: Distinction is an abstract word. That two objects are separate/different from one another is one of those notions and ape-man never made into language – there was never the evolutionary need to talk about “distinction”. Yes: one could say that one banana is different from another (and one wants the bigger one), but to have Distinction exist stand-alone as a distinct notion is abstract thinking and we are not evolved to do that. For millions of years the caveman word for “distinction” was only used in a sentance – not stand-alone as in “distinction certainly exists because thinker and thought are both certain truths”.
Plato: This is one of those pitfalls of the mind – biases if you will – that repell some and attract others. Curiosity is the key for wiring one´s brain…
God: As I would like to have it wired. I am not so much for your evolved thinking – to comprehend me you have to think abstractly. However weird it feels, if you want true revelation – like the one you got from Descartes – you need curiosity (an eagerness for truth) to overcome various pitfalls of the mind / biases like the one where certain words should be used in a context (to differentiate one banana as distinct from another) – God wants you to, in order to prevent future large-scale wars, understand abstract truths like saying “distinction certainly exists and was concluded based on Descartes´ I think and I am -certain truth”. True revelations include abstractness.
Plato: Which is why Descartes got invited to the Queen of Sweden.
Socrates: Philosophy gives one revelation if revelation is defined as truth.
God: People have always liked God´s truth, whether it be ape-man´s false “truths” or Descartes´ certain truth.
Socrates: Isn´t “distinction” a wide concept used on even atoms being distinct from one another? My chair is distinct from my pillow which is distinct from my thinker and thought.
God: Indeed – the chinese called “distinction” “the ten thousand things” because 10 000 is about as many items as the mind can comprehend visually.
Darwin: The human brain evolved its size so much so that it can imagine 10 000 soldiers, but like Stalin said: one death is a tragedy, a million deaths is just a statistic. The chinese meant the abstraction “distinction” when they said “the ten thousand things” – they were speaking metaphorically of the very notion of distinction. They didn´t literally count 10 000 something – in their philosophy they called the entire world “the ten thousand things” which simply means that distinction exists. The chinese and Descartes proved the same point: it is God´s word that distinction is a legitimate concept in a world that is one as a whole.
Socrates: Is there an opposition between Reality being one (you´ve never heard anyone say “two Realities”) and there being multiple things (distinction)? The definition of Reality is that all things are part of it; the external world comes as a singular.
Plato: It is certainly possible to, in the mind´s eye, uphold the notion of a single Reality of which everything is part. Even the word “everything” is a single word referring to all distinct items/notions at once.
God: That of which all is part is one.
Darwin: This is again a pitfall of the mind: we evolved to consider events, memories and stories as that either, for example, that person was there or he was some other place – but he was not here and there at the same time. We evolved to rearrange matter for evolutionary benefits and never were we confronted with a scenario where two opposite scenarios were simultaneously true. An item was either here or there – not both places at once. Either a death had occurred or it hadn´t – not both cases simultaneously. Even in caveman days did we have a word for “the world” (like in the sentence: “the world is full of items”) – a single word to refer to all things at once.
God: And I did indeed make One Reality – not two or three, nor half of one. It can be counted: 1.
Darwin: So while the caveman days had words like “distinction” and “reality”…
Plato: And Reality can be defined as anti-distinction because it is a single word referring to a single Creation.
God: And in religious speech you have never heard priests say “God created Creations” with “creations” as plural.
Darwin: Cavemen used both the all-encompassing everything-containing notion “Reality”/”The world” in sentences like “it´s ONE nasty world” and they used the distinction-notion in sentectes like “the two bananas are distinct”, but it wasn´t until the past maybe 5000 years that both notions were taken out of contexts, analyzed independently and realized to be the opposites of one another. This is a pitfall of the mind, it took hundreds of thousands of years of using the words in contexts before someone took them out of contexts and opposed them to one another. We didn´t evolve to handle two true scenarios/cases simultaneously (but we did evolve to think of everything as scenarios/cases, which is why abstract thinking is so new).
Plato: There are many ways to say that there is both distinction and anti-distinction. One can use synonyms to them like separation vs. Reality; many vs. One. But “that of which all is part” – the most all-encompassing, One Reality, should always be capitalized when writing it because it is the only thing worth worshipping.
God: Am I it or am I part of it?
Plato: You are a synonym to it because no monotheism considers God a part of something larger; if God were a part of something larger than that larger should be the One which worship is directed toward. If one worships Reality then one worships something greater than God, if God is a part within a larger whole.
Socrates: Imagine two groups of worshippers and assume God is part of a larger whole called Reality (which is one because it is defined as “that of which all is part”): which group worships the greater? Which group worships God plus something more? God must be a synonym for Reality.
Plato: God is one – Reality is one. God is all-encompassing/”akbar” – Reality is all-encompassing/”akbar”.
Darwin: Eventhough we´ve now taken both distinction out of any “natural” context and defined Reality as one, we´re still not at the peak of complexity regarding how non-ape-like our thinking can get. If we pit the two notions we´re talking about against eachother, we´d call them distinction and anti-distinction (one is anti-distinction), and our evolved mind goes bananas when two opposites are true. But what´s more is that distinction happens in Reality; distinction happens in anti-distinction. The single One is divided up into many distinct pieces – but yet there is all the time only One (Reality is always a valid concept). So one of our two notions is not only the opposite of the other, it exists within or is the property of the other. Distinctiveness is the property that a single Reality upholds. As a student of evolution, thinking about the scenarios that never happened in the natural world, there never was a putting of two opposites within one another, both being abstract and out of any natural context like Reality and distinction are. We evolved to think in terms of stories, memories and scenarios – not in terms of opposites containing eachother both being abstract. Not only was our toolkit (our mind) not made for this job: it has an explicit bias and avoidance of having two true opposites (especially when they´re made of one another).
Socrates: Is this just a mental game to build a mental sculpture without conclusion?
God: No – it is revelation; you don´t like it because you evolved. It´s built on certain truth and it´s gotten quite complex: this revelation has expanded. But there is a punchline: you cannot see God. As Descartes said: you are distinct and thus opposites to Me because I am anti-distinction. You know for certain that you think – and when you think of me you are not entering anti-separation: you are just holding a distinct notion in front of you which is supposed to be anti-separation/Reality/God.
Plato: This is the dawn of monotheisms. Someone realized that by being distinct, as Descartes proved for each one of us that we are – observation is separation – we cannot see anti-distinction.
Darwin: Here too is a pitfall of the mind. The very sentence “I cannot see X” when talking about X as things the mind can summon in the mind´s eye, sounds like a contradiction to evolved ears. If you said X/Reality/anti-distinction then you assume that you are beholding it in your mind´s eye. But you are not! Separation is inherent in the very act of beholding something in the mind´s eye and we are trying to behold the opposite of separation. Does it get more complex than this? We built the sculpture – and it is all revelation because it goes step-by-step from certain truth – and now we can conclude that we, as distinct entities (observation is distinction) cannot see our finest, most recent conclusion even in the mind´s eye: we can´t see Reality.
Plato: Ah, that reminds me of my cave metaphor. I realized, about 2000 years ago when I was still alive, that our setting of words to things, our learned properties of tools, our differing opinions, our contradicting histories of things like who won a fight – all prove that our mental maps are not equal to the external “territory”. It´s like we´re chained to the wall of a cave and our vision sees only the shadows in the sunlight against the wall of the cave – we don´t see out the entrence of the cave, we only see the shadows. This realization that our mental representations of things are not the things themselves – that senses are distorting middlemen and so is the mind too – can be phrased as “the map is not the territory”.
God: No! The “distinction to anti-distinction opposition” that we built up to from certain truth and led us to the conclusion that as distinct entities/thinkers/observers we do not see “that of which all is part”/Reality/God/anti-
distinction, is not your 2000 year old conclusion about “the map is not the territory”. Plato, your discovery that you told through your cave-metaphor has been significant and repeated until the modern age, and will always be taught to children – it was a great discovery, but it´s not the birth of monotheism: it´s not the distinction vs. anti-distinction “we cannot see Reality”-thesis.
Plato: I know, the two just remind me of one another.
Darwin: The difference between them is that you don´t get monotheism out of knowing that your mental map is not “the territory”. Plato said, 2000 years ago through his cave metaphor, that “we interpret things”. It is a pitfall of the mind to not see this notion, but it makes perfect sense since we work (maximize evolutionary benefits) faster by our brains being wired to disregard that we work on interpretations of the world. In fact: it would´ve been a cumbersome non-benefitial mutation to have the brain, as it works, to always be reminded of that it is working on the world through a middleman i.e. it is interpreting. Why would we have evolved the knowledge that we´re interpreting instead of acting without middleman? Such things had to be invented and Plato was the first to have invented it 2000 years ago. We´re not born with that knowledge, it´s taught from generation to the next. Every animal just acts and no animal, except humans when they´re taught Platos discovery, has gotten evolutionary benefits from acknowledging Plato´s cave metaphor i.e. “the map is not the territory” i.e. there is a middleman (senses, interpretations, mental maps, knowledge).
God: But all of this is off-topic to the discussion you were having about not seeing Me. You have to distinguish between what we can call “distinction-antidistinction-
opposition” which is the sculpture we built logic-by-logic from certain truth, and Plato´s “the map is not the territory”-statement about the middleman. Having a middleman to our, for evolutionary reasons assumed to be direct contact with the world, is not the birthplace of monotheism. Talking about why One anti-distinct Reality – the only thing worth worshipping because it contains everything – cannot be seen because we are, as Descartes said, distinct (and thus opposite to anti-distinction), is the birthplace of monotheism. We left off, on our sculpture, at “distinction cannot see Reality” and then we got reminded of Plato´s “the map is not the territory”-discovery – but the two discoveries are different because “the map is not the territory” in no way utilizes the all-encompassing anti-distinction concept nor the certain-truth distinction-concept, nor does it lead to monotheism. Plato´s discovery is just an observation, taught forward as a metaphor, about our senses and interpretations of an external world which we gain information about.
Socrates: Why did God give us two so similar but different revelations?
God: Because one is simple and the other one is complex.
Darwin: Both are evolutionary pitfalls of the mind, but Platos´ contains just one pitfall: that we didn´t evolve to acknowledge any middleman. Plato acknowledged a middleman (i.e. our interpretive nature) and that´s all there was to it. In the teaching that saves the world from group-bonding once decline occurs is based on and builds upon certain truth. In it we´ve gotten past many pitfalls – not just one like in Plato´s discovery. Plato is fully understood if one acknowledges one evolutionary pitfall – one distinction between how we, due to evolution, naturally think and how we “ought to think”.
God: Ought to think means how I urge you to think – you get revelation – you find our more about me – by overcoming all pitfalls that evolution gave you. Plato´s finding gets you past one pitfall – and that´s good: you´ve found out more about me. But the reason he was the starter of philosophy and not the ender of all religious wars is because he didn´t build a sculpture made out of avoidances of pitfalls.
Socrates: I see that the story where Descartes, distinction and anti-distinction are involved is separate from Plato´s 2000 year old cave metaphor. I see the difference in complexity i.e. number of pitfalls when I compare the platonic cave-metaphor´s resemblance to that there are two equally legitimate truths – distinction and anti-distinction – and they exist atop of eachother i.e. simultaneously, but are opposites, and we humans are in one (distinction) in one way, but in anti-distinction (Reality) in another way. “We don´t see Reality” are words that slip of our tounge regarding both the platonic cave-metaphor and the… whatever it´s called: story that ends wars.
God: Logic about me; revelation confirmed by each and everyone individually and in groups; the truth rather than the conflict that causes bloodshed. Plato overcame one pitfall. In the story based on Descartes´ distinction and God being all-encompassing Reality which is one and can´t be represented we´ve gotten to the point that easily reminds humans of Plato´s cave metaphor: “I don´t see Reality/anti-distinction”, but we get side-tracked if we think Plato´s cave metaphor is the same as the opposition (and simultaneous intertwinedness) between distinction and anti-distinction; between ourselves and Reality. Humans associate too easily – when two different works of logic leads to the summary of a conclusion using the same phrase, we think that the two works of logic are the same – but they´re not and that´s the pitfall.
Plato: It´s akin to two pieces of art – paintings – both containing the same image of a bird. Just because one sentence is the same doesn´t mean its meaning is the same, or that the reasons for it are the same.
Socrates: Nor are the conclusions that stem from it the same.
Darwin: Too quick associations – even though the prelude to them was different and the way in which the sentence “I don´t see Reality” is meant is different – is a pitfall. For the story that ends religious wars it´s better to not even know Plato´s cave-metaphor. There must be a clear distinction in one´s mind between the platonic “I don´t see Reality” (because of middlemen i.e. the map-territory-distinction) and the more fundamental “I don´t see Reality” which is based on that both distinction and anti-distinction are legitimate but opposite concepts.
Socrates: Let´s say we´ve unlearned Plato´s cave-metaphor: why is our “I don´t see Reality” – because of distinction and anti-distinction – “more fundamental”?
God: Because it says something more thorough-going than the shallow-penetrating platonic statement. Guess how I, God, defined “see”?
Is this going to clarify things in religion, preventing grand clashes in the future? Religion scales up war – is the coming statement going to scale down those future wars?
God: Yes. The way I defined “see” or observer or hear or smell or taste or behold in your mind´s eye or comprehend or think about some notion, is to use the word “represent” to refer to all of these. Like in the sentence “the coffe cup represents the chair” it means that the coffee cup is a symbol – like a vision or a thought-up notion is – and it´s pointing toward the chair / it symbolizes the chair. Guess how vaguely I´ve defined “it´s pointing toward” and “it symbolizes”?
Plato: The human definition would involve humans or computers, because without humans nor computers there wouldn´t be anything capable of handeling a representation of a chair using a coffee cup. It´s subjective what represents what – humans decide what represents what at any one moment.
Socrates: Would there the coffee cup represent the chair if all humans and all computers would be removed?
God: Yes and no. Maybe. This shows how vaguely I´ve defined “represents”. If you exclude humans from the game, anything can randomly and arbitrarily represent (be a pointer to and a symbol of) anything. A human life is the very representation of things as mental objects – we haven´t seen a single thing without a neuron or two being parked as the symbol that refers to whatever external we are referring to.
Socrates: Our lives are that of representations; without them we´d be nothing – we´d be spider-brains brain-wise. Our favorite task is to represent. We humans might have firm beliefs about that the word “cow” means something that can give milk, and we´re repulsed by those who use the word “cow” to mean comb. That repulsion and insiting on a word represent what society agrees it should represent is what language is built of.
Darwin: We´d fall into pitfalls of the mind all the time is we weren´t strict about what is allowed to represent what and what is not allowed to represent what. If the ideas and words in our heads suddenly started becoming representours and representees, we would´ve gone crazy: our world-view wouldn´t make sense nor would we be able to speak coherently. Human strictness about how firmly or loosely something (an idea) represents something else (a visual object), or what is not allowed to represent what, was an evolutionary necessty for complex world-views/plans to evolve.
God: But back to the topic at hand, how do I, God, define “represent” – am I strict about which clusters or matter are allowed to represent which other clusters of matter? Would I allow a tiny region of empty space – part of Reality as it is – represent all the galaxies in the cosmos simultaneously?
Plato: Why not: the strictness in human representations is an evolved trait – we don´t go around abusing the gift by letting random things represent random things; to prove this: you´ve propably never heard of particularly a coffee cup representing a chair. We evolved to represent as to create mental maps which include evolved inventions like hierarchies (king vs. slave), personalities (is he a threat to me or not?), social bonds between various people (are the three of those protect eachother?) – but we also map less alive things like the level of calmness in the country which we live in, or the grand-scale context involving God i.e. that of which all is part is the umbrella under which all other maps reside – be they geographical, social, how to use tools, plans for the future, memories of the past.
Darwin: We have clear biases in our map-making; some things interest us while other things that we could possibly represent don´t interest us. Our representations are collected through biases.
Plato: Don´t computers also represent? The location A654 on the hard-drive might point to the data stored on the other side of the drive, which when interpreted through a image-viewing program is a family photo.
Socrates: Indeed – so you could say that if computers stay working and all humans die, then there´d still be representation because one area or item is only useful when being akin to a finger pointing to the representee. But what about the cup and the chair -example? A relationship of representing was summoned between them by a human simply stating that one represents the other. We could jot it down on paper and now the paper would be the keeper and communicator of that relationship of representation. A computer is just like a piece of paper in this regard – but so is the human brain: the human brain´s representing ability seems different from that of a piece of paper´s or a computer´s because we see evolutionary benefits (we see feeling) in our representations. Representation happens so fast to us – and our feelings tell us whether the connections or chronological sequence of representations following one another is an evolutionary benefit or its opposite (to be loved or feared). Anatomically, if you opened up the brain under a microscope, you´d see neurons as the ideas (representees and representors) and the “arms” (axons, dendrites) of the neuron – connecting it to other neurons – as the relationship called “representation” or association. If a complex visual stimulus (of you seeing a cow) is, through the microscope, observed to happen at the back of your brain, you´d see it connect to a much smaller “mind´s cow”-concept both as a linguistic item and an imagined mind´s eye visual item. How is this different from gluing a photograph of a cow on the same piece of paper onto which a 3-year-old has drawn “a cow”, and writing “a cow” as a third representor of the actual – and now we get to Plato´s map-territory-distinction – cow itself? There is a real cow on the meadow but our paper has three objects referring to it – just as our brain has three objects referring to it. If we´d brainstorm around the word “cow” on the paper, the paper would exactly resemble how our brain represents external phenomena like the cow.
God: So what differentiates you, human, from a computer or a piece of paper is that you bias your representations and seek through your representations in search for evolutionary benefits, is that right?
Plato: My intuition tells me that my world-map is more significant than the cow on the paper or the coffeecup determined to represent the chair.
Darwin: Our world-view is what our plans are made in; it is the house of our imaginary future and of our past; our mental map is the context to everything that happens. Whether God gave revelations to bronze-age men is either true or false, but it is the mental map i.e. our world-view that sets the context for what is possible and what is impossible. The future wars coming from the economic decline of the world will be religious wars if humanity does not steer away from its current path. Religious wars is all about “true or false”-claims about the context, about the house of our plans, about our world-view. Being of differing opinions on questions about the context and what it can and can´t do (for example: give revelations other than as human-found truths about God) is the bringer of large-scale war; if the context could be agreed upon by everyone – if we can start from Descartes´ certain truth and work our way up to having a context/world-view that explains everything – then we can ask where/if a revelation-giving side-in-war-choosing God fits in it. The context/world-view is what it is: so far we´ve gone from Descartes certain truth of I exist and thought exists, to claiming that the former warrants the idea “distinction”, then we talked about anti-distinction (that of which all is part / Reality / God (if God is as grand and thus as much worth worshipping as Reality).
Darwin: Then we talked about how human life is all representation, biased and emotional such.
God: That´s why you have a different intuition and relationship toward “representation” that I do. I´m very liberal when it comes to whom or what or when something starts and stops representing something else. I know that representing is very important for you humans, but I didn´t design the cosmos antropocentrically (with you as my dearest and your representations more worthwhile than any other phenomena). Representation to me means as much as dancing: God doesn´t dance. If you take great delight in it, nay – if your whole life all is it from beginning til end – then still I don´t care about it any more than the sudden, totally independent of humans noticing, pictures painting or computers storing, representation of a chair using a coffee cup. I´ll let the coffee cup represent the chair while at the same time having nothing represent nothing in the same scenario. I´ll both set representation as the relationship between the coffee cup and chair, and simultaneously set non-representation as the relationship. You can see my point if two strangers walk into the room never having thought about representation in the way we´re talking about it: I´ll ask them: does the coffee cup represent the chair? One person says yes and the other says no. Both are right and both are wrong. Representation is arbitrary. From a God´s eye point-of-view anything can represent anything, nothing can represent everything – anything you can imagine the word “represent” be used for is always simultaneously both active and inactive. That´s why you get difficulties in getting the world world to agree on a single dictionary definition for any one word: God didn´t make these (representation) rules, man created them to better be able to communicate. It´s a shared agreement amongst humans (and cats and dogs if they know their names). A word represents something but there is no universal language (God didn´t choose, say, arabic as The Language) meaning that representing itself is a human game which eases gaining evolutionary benefits. God couldn´t care less what we use to represent what and there definitely is no God-given representations available.
Socrates: We left off, in our philosophy, at the conclusion that “we don´t see (see meaning represent) Reality” because we are in the realm of distinctions while Reality is defined as that of which all is part i.e. anti-distinction. The distinction-antidistinction relationship is as follows: they are both legitimate words; they are opposites but both are true simultaneously and always; humans exist in both realms but as seers/representors in the distinction-realm (because observation is separation) and as non-seers/non-representers when trying to see/represent Reality. When we try to represent anti-distinction we must ask ourselves: how did God define “represent”/”see”. We concluded that although humans and other map-making animals put great importance on representations, God does not. God will let a coffee cup represent a chair and simultaneously not – the notion “represents” as a relationship between two objects is from God´s point of view there´s zero importance to what represents what: representation is an arbitrary relationship to God (if it can be called “a relationship” at all because it is us map-making humans that for evolutionary reasons insist on biasing our thoughts to have such relationships in the first place). The act of representing is 100% loosely (not strictly) defined from God´s point of view; representing is antropocentric – something humans do while the relationship “this represents that” both exists and doesn´t exist stand-alone from humans in nature.
God: I don´t care if a rock represents a tree right now – representations, like beauty is said to be, is in the eye of the beholder and eyeless things like Gods simply aren´t concerned with what humans have defined to represent what.
Socrates: So the smallest could represent the largest?
God: Why not – if you will it, it does. If you claim the representing is as you say, then the representing is as you say. I´ve defined the notion “represents” as loosely as can be – maximally loosely – it is a completely arbitrary human game to which I´ve set no rules.
Plato: Remember the part of the discourse when we concluded that “we don´t see/represent Reality” (and not because of the platonic cave-metaphor but because of the more fundamental opposition between distinction and anti-distinction)? Representation being defined by God as it is, combined with the statement “I don´t represent Reality (due to distinction-antidistinction-
opposition)” is…
God: Revelation – truth about Me. More holy than any holy book. The more complex (reaching a higher level of intelligence) the conclusion, the more distinct are you from the lower animals and the more detailed the sculpture/world-view you´re building becomes. You´re basically wiring your brain to become as I, God, make it if you think about me enough.
Plato: True – this pinnacle of intellectual civilization has, if space is infinite and evolution common, been reached on infinitely many planets before ours first though. If time is infinite then what we´re discussing is the apex of a mountain that every civilization in eternity climbs.
Darwin: The reason it´s new is because it´s hard. The reason it´s hard is because evolution gave us a toolkit (mind) that falls into pitfalls as soon as intellectual discourse doesn´t fit what cavemen were dealing with in their maps, plans etc – and trust me: their context/most all-encompassing map/world-view, even though they liked to have divinities with wills as causes for earthquakes, did not get to this point – coming from Certain Truth, avoiding tens of pitfalls that want to make us give up the whole search for truth and a universal mind/world-view.
Plato: Darwin, this world-view – because it is basically a “view of Reality/the world” albeit a very well organized, abstract one with pitfalls to be avoided – isn´t what our brain evolved to deal with as “the context under which our lives unfold”, is it? Yet all this abstractness, all this highly civilized talk like taking the word “represent” out of context and asking what God thinks about it, is indeed true.
Socrates: I´m not going to talk about this topic again nor remember any of this unless this discussion leads up to a conclusion, preferrably seeable, which explains (answers the questions why? and how?) anything and everything I might want to ask. It should be so full-fledged that pseudo-explanations like the religious ones pale in comparison. That´d defeat group-bonding and thus humanity can evade large-scale future wars.
God: Relax – we are not even half-way through the story / sequence of logical thoughts. The last thing we arrived at was that I don´t define “represents” and you, or a computer, or why not something that doesn´t even seem to do representing, represents one thing using another.
Socrates: “I represent Reality” is a true claim since “represents” could mean “see” and we do indeed see, so we represent – and what do we represent? A part of Reality. No-one would deny that they experience/represent everyday life. But, because of distinction-antidistinction-
opposition nothing can represent antidistinction because all representation is tethered to distinction. Distinction – having one thing have the relationship “I represent…” toward another thing – is a necessity for representation unless representation is so loosely defined by God that you don´t even need two things to do representation – maybe God´s opinion is that a thing can represent itself without any distinction present. That is a question for another day, so for now let´s consider humans: we do see something – we do experience/represent life – and there is distinction present in all human representations when we represent Reality/anti-distinction. But if, for human representations, distinction is unavoidable when claiming to represent the opposite of distinction, then the opposite of distinction – that of which all is part / Reality – cannot be represented in its anti-distinct nature.
Plato: Again we are back at the conclusion “I don´t see Reality” – and as you can see we don´t see everything as One: if we did, we wouldn´t see or know the difference between ourselves, a chair and a coffee cup. Human representations always have distinction in it like Descartes said when he gave us two certain truths instead of one: I think and – insert distinction here – I exist.
God: It is a universal truth – a law of nature, if you will – that nothing which sees can see anti-distinction. Reality is like a two-sided coin: on one side you have “the ten thousand things”/distinction and on the other side you have “that of which all is part”/the most all-encompassing singular anti-distinction. This is why humans can say “I don´t see Reality” – they mean one of the sides of the coin.
Plato: When we see the distinction-side of the coin – the only side which we can see – do we see all there is to Reality? I don´t know. But when we consider/represent as best we can the other side of the coin (antidistinction), we certainly do not see Reality.
God: If we focus on the distinction-side of the coin, you are unaware of the answer to the question: “is there more to Reality than can be represented?”. The answer can either be yes or no – maybe our distinct representations – or let´s say a coffeecup independent of humans – represent all there is to Reality. But on the other side of the coin (the anti-distinction-side) you get a clear answer to whether you see/represent all of Reality or not: no, you do not.
Plato: We, nor a coffee-cup, represents – eventhough represents is infinitely loosely defined – something but not Reality because Reality is anti-distinction by being that of which all is part. Certainly there is one Reality and certainly does nothing, despite the looseness of the definition of “represents”, represent that Reality.
God: I gave Reality the property of being unseeable/unrepresentable. Sure – the coin has another side which leaves the question: “can any representation manage to represent all of Reality?” an unclear answer: maybe what we see when we are distinct (as we always are) all of Reality. But the other side of the coin tells us that no representation – not even the coffeecup – is enough to represent Reality. Even in the thought-experiment that things are allowed to represent themselves – no distinction needed – there´d be at least two things (and thus not anti-distinction) if something (even Reality as a whole itself) would try to represent Reality as a whole.
Socrates: So God, through our reasoning/logic, gave us two questions: “can X represent Reality when Reality is considered to be its infinitely many parts (distinction)?” and “can X represent Reality when Reality is considered to be just one all-encompassing whole (anti-distinction)? The questions can be rephrased as: “is Reality infinite?” and the first question (when Reality is considered as distinct parts) leaves the question “is Reality infinite?” unanswered – we simply don´t know when we limit our information like this. But the second question gives a clear answer to the question “is Reality infinite?” because of two reasons: 1) we do not see/represent Reality eventhough we do experience life i.e. represent something. No matter how loose God considers representations to be, no representation represents “that of which all is part” because it is anti-distinction and representation tethers distinction to whatever is being represented. We do see some (distinction) but no representation represents anti-distinction which is synonymous to Reality; we do see something but we don´t see Reality (and not for the platonic-cave reason; instead the reason is the opposition between anti-distinction (the oneness of Reality) and distinction (which is inevitably used when representation occurs (and it occurs all the time according to God, regardless of humans)).
Plato: We got two questions from God and one premise: the premise was that representation is distinction. The first question was “do we see Reality (when the side of the coin that shows distinction is considered). The answer to this first question was that we don´t know whether we represent “all of it” or not (whether we represent “that of which all is part”/Reality or if we don´t). If we don´t, considering how loosely “represents” is defined by God, we still know that representation occurs i.e. the coffeecup can be said to represent that of which all is part: the coffee cup represents as much as is possibly allowed: I could claim that one notion of mine represents that of which all is part. This being the answer to the first question, it would be possible for Reality to be finite because I can claim to represent Reality using one notion. With this distinction-based question and answer Reality could be finite or it could be infinite; Reality could be considered to be represented if Reality is finite – we simply don´t know if Reality is finite or infinite when we´re looking at the “Reality is the ten thousand things / distinction”-side of the coin. The second question, “do we see Reality (when the side of the coin that shows anti-distinction is considered?”, has only one answer: no, we do not represent Reality because representation is distinction. Whatever we represent, whatever is being represented is not Reality when Reality is considered to be anti-distinction (because distinction is inherent in representations). Anti-distinction cannot be represented; we don´t represent Reality no matter how much or what we represent.
God: Reality comes as both anti-distinction and distinction. When you asked questions about the distinction-version of Reality you got the answer that you might represent it or you might not – it may be infinite or it may not be (if it is infinite it can´t be represented). When you asked questions about the anti-distinction version of Reality you got the answer that no matter the representation and no matter how loosely God has defined what representation means, representation cannot represent Reality because distinction is inherent in representation. You cannot represent Reality.
Plato: Representation is distinction like when Descartes said that the self that certainly exists is distinct from a notion/thought/idea/
representation (which certainly exists too). When Reality´s distinction-side is considered, you don´t know if all of Reality can be represented or not – but it´s an open possibility that a coffee cup or mental notion is a reference to “all of it”, and if that be the case then Reality must be finite. We got two questions that start out the same: “do we see Reality if Reality is…” 1) distinct entities, 2) a single all-encompassing whole. We obviously see distinct entities but we don´t know whether a notion or coffee cup, based on God´s definition of “represents”, can be said to represent Reality. If Reality would at this point in our logical discourse be known to be infinite, then nothing could represent it. But it is only when we ask “can something represent Reality when Reality is anti-distinction?” that we get the answer “representation is distinction i.e. you cannot represent Reality”, meaning that without a doubt Reality must be infinite because there is no way to represent it.
Darwin: It´s a pitfall of the mind that Reality has this dual nature of both being One and simultaneously being many distinct parts. This dual nature lets God pose two questions to us which both are asked in order to answer a third question, namely “is there infinitely much to Reality?”. If Reality would only be distinction and not at all anti-distinction then we´d get a “maybe – I don´t know”-answer to the questions “is Reality infinite?” and “can Reality be represented?”. But since the second question deals with Reality´s anti-distinction-nature, we get the answer that there is no way to represent it – and yet we talk about it! For logic to occur Reality must be infinite because our words obviously refer to it (represent it) but we know that we do not represent it because it is anti-distinction and words are distinction. Distinct words can, as we do in this very sentence, represent it (mind you how loosely God uses the word “represents”/”refers”) – and yet one claim holds true: that anti-distinction cannot be represented. We do represent and refer to something – and we try to make that something “that of which all is part” (a singular anti-distinction) – and we stand with two facts:
Plato: 1) That we do represent Reality because we are speaking about it, using notions like anti-distinction/”that of which all is part” to represent it in that very loose way in which God defined “represents” – and yet we know that the distinction-antidistinction-
opposition makes us unable to do what we just said we did: speak about / refer to / represent Reality. The only solution to this is that there is more to Reality than can be referred to / spoken about / represented. We do represent something (and we try to make that something “Reality”) with our words, yet we know from distinction-antidistinction-
opposition that there is a reason more fundamental than Plato´s cave metaphor which makes Reality incapable of being represented. We represent something (even with the word “Reality”) but we do not represent Reality. This is proof that there is infinitely much to Reality – when we speak about “that of which all is part” we are only speaking about part of it (no matter how much hypotheses we add to our representor).
Socrates: So the distinction-antidistinction-
opposition that makes representations of Reality impossible make it so because we are capable of representing something (of Reality) but, despite the looseness of God´s word “represents”, we are not referring to / representing all of Reality. No matter how much we refer to, we do not refer to Reality as a whole – and the only way this makes sense is by Reality being infinite.
Plato: When Reality´s distinction-side is considered, we don´t know if Reality is infinite or not because our representation (be it a word or a coffee cup) doesn´t yield the answer: “not even that representation, with not even that definition of the word ‘represents’, represents (all of) Reality”. But when considering our blindness in any of our representations when Reality´s anti-distinction-nature is considered, making a representation of Reality yields the answer: “by the distinct referring to the anti-distinct, the representation does not refer to Reality”, which answers “yes” on the question “is Reality infinite?” because we can play around infinitely much with God´s definition of “represents” and still none of our attempts represents Reality. The word “anti-distinction” represents Reality but since it simultaneously, due to distinction-antidistinction-
opposition, does not represent Reality, then Reality must be infinite. We do see something but we don´t see all of it, no matter how much we try to play around with the word “represents” or “refers to”.
Darwin: How much of a pitfall for the mind is that?! We ask the same question – “do I represent Reality?” – to both Reality´s distinct flipside of the coin and to Reality´s anti-distinct flipside of the coin. From the distinct side we can´t conclude anything about the infinity of Reality, but from the anti-distinct side we can conclude that Reality is infinite. We asked one question – “do I represent Reality?” – and based on the answers we were able to answer another question: “is Reality infinite?”. Yes it is because only the infinite cannot be represented (with God´s loose definition of “representation”/”reference to”). There are so many pitfalls of the mind regarding this that it boggles the mind – but new 21st century science can only exist if it goes through mental acrobatics to yield a goal like the answer “Reality is infinite (and we only represent part of the infinite)”.
God: Good job, humans! You´ve led an uninterrupted path from Certain Truth to that Reality is Infinite without making any assumptions along the way. What you have so far is True – your world-view has now, without a doubt, gotten the notion “infinite Reality”. Now the hard part of logic is over and only easy conclusions remain – in no time you´ll have a world-view that, based on the 100% certain methodology used so far, explains the creation of the world, the dawn of evolution, the human emotional repertoire etc. But as a reward for having found out that I, God, am infinite I´ll tell you a direct conclusion from the fact of infinity: there are infinitely many planets where the exact same mental acrobatics were done to prove the exact same point; in the now-proven-to-be infinite Reality there are infinitely many creatures just like you whom used the exact same sequence of logical steps, beginning from exactly the same “I think & I am”-starting point – and their brains, their “world-view” also added infinity to the grandest context in which everyone´s lives unfold. To be funny about it: you´re thinking like an alien (extraterrestrial, which there are infinitely many of because Reality is infinite). To be serious about it: your civilization just took a step in a universal direction – along God´s path – instead of into some rare arbitrary direction. You´ve just proven that there are infinitely many civilizations and you proved that by using certain truth plus logic – do you know how many other civilizations across infinite space have taken, are taking or will take the exact same direction (logic is light a flashlight that guides us through the dark into the right direction) using the exact same starting point (certain truth), prevented the exact same future horror-scenario (wars over lack of universal knowledge, or rather group-bonds based on non-universal holy books) and avoided/overcome the same darwinian pitfalls which were the reason why this science was invented so late in human history. Everyone likes a revelation – if you believe something came directly from God you are appropriate to respect it; the infinite Reality in which infinitely many aliens use the exact same sequence of thoughts (beginning from certain truth, noticing the pitfalls, etc until the infinity of Reality is proven) – the exact same textbook/curriculum. The fundamental ideas taught so far can be taught in any order, but only one or a few orders are the same orders that are chosen, based on logic, on the majority of alien civilizations. The language of the book will be different from planet to planet but the order of the ideas, the universal evolution-based pitfall warnings, the most essential elements of this book are true revelation if revelation is defined to be universal i.e. accessible to logic on any of the infinitely many planets.
Most planets, it can be reasonably assumed, appriciate science and thus let logic guide them in their shopping for a world-view that makes sense. No matter how much time out of infinitely much time passes, God has installed the same pitfalls, order or ideas, the same starting point etc etc – the same book in essence – in the very fabric of Reality. It is exactly what´s needed to both advance civilization and to prevent coming wars from having an element of holy book-based group-bonding which scales up the war. Everyone likes a revelation and what you´ve just read is the first truly holy book, the first world-view applicable to everyone (throughout an infinite universe), the first revelation by God choosing the order of ideas, where the pitfalls will be, what the starting point should be, etc.
Plato: We got from “I think and I am” to “distinction” to “all is part of a single Reality called anti-distinction” to asking questions about the representability of Reality and thus being able to ask what the answers to the representability-questions tell us about the extent/infinity of Reality. God, what´s the next step on this universal sequence? We want to wire our brain more in the way that you chose to be good for thinking animals. We want to be more like the majority of highly-civilized planets – to have the same ideas and the same associations and explanations between those ideas.
Socrates: I´m assuming the next idea to be presented won´t be a random choice from among many ideas, but will be the logically chosen by the path set by God in eternity, and thus the practicality on the majority of highly-civilized planets.
God: Reality is infinite, but do you know what is infinite about Reality? Every object or even region of empty space has two important parameters that determine its nature: size and time. Objects of a large size, say galaxies, are studied as a separate field of science – it´s its separate school of thought – compared to objects of a smaller size, say atoms. You can ask these two questions about any object: what is its size and where along a time-axis is it located? If you study every field of science – from cosmology to quantum physics, evolutionary psychology to the history of freedom – you´ll end up needing a wall, because a wall is a square and each and every piece of knowledge will fit on a square-shaped size-time-coordinate system.
Socrates: We´ve said that Reality is infinite. Now we´ve said that every thing has a size and a time and thus fits into a size-time-diagram. What exactly in or about Reality is it that is infinite, if not the size-axis and time-axis which as a square displays every object known to man. What else could be infinite if it´s not size and time that are infinite?
Plato: Size is just a way of saying “three dimensions, each dimension´s length being a particular number of centimeters”. Can one separate time from that? No: time is inherent in space and space is inherent in time. Time is called “the 4th dimension”. “Spacetime” is a single word referring to either a finite or infinite spacial region with either a finite or infinite length of time. Space (to which size is inherent) and time are united, yet on a square-shaped size-time-diagram the two are on axises perpendicular to one another. Drawing the diagram like so is the easiest – and thus universal i.e. favorite among God and the majority of aliens – way of getting, into a single picture, all that science has ever found or can hope to find when it comes to regions or objects. The footnote is that the two axises might look separate but are in reality a single spacetime – separating them is done for the cosmetic reason that then all that is known by science fits into a single square picture.
God: Guess how many highly-civilized planets in my infinite realm do indeed use the square to symbolize their knowledge of everything that has a size and time? The square – not the cube nor the sphere nor the triangle – is God´s visual. It is this square that is infinite from the conclusion that Reality is infinite. It can´t be so that only size or only time is infinite because the two are connected: a single spacetime. There is infinitely large and infinitely small (spaces) and there is infinitely much past and infinitely much future (time). The universal symbol for this – God´s drawing – is a square with infinity-symbols at the ends of each axis.
Plato: Even a kid knows the following but it is worth mentioning because it, even though obvious, is God´s truth and leads to something much more significant: sizes are because of one another; the smaller makes up the larger and the larger is the reason why the smaller can exist. We can call this “sizes justify one another”, the word “justify” meaning a “because”-relationship or a “is, for its existence, dependant on”-relationship. Now that we know that Reality is infinite and that everything science will ever find in Reality will fit on a wall (square), we´ll do like both aliens and God wants us to and proclaim that the size-axis and by extension the relationship between any two sizes is justification. When you ask the question: “why is there the object of X size? / how does object of X size work?” the answer inevitably will be – regardless of whether you´re asking about a galaxy or you are a medical doctor asking about an organ – to zoom in and zoom out: to look at the larger and the smaller.
God: Do you know why 99.999999% of alien planets with advanced civilizations, when they draw the size-axis on their wall, let the upward (roof) direction represent the larger and the down (floor) direction represent the smaller? It feels like a bit of a stretch to say it´s directly God´s truth / God´s way of representing time along a vertical axis. It turns out that humans tend to see more (larger things) when they lift their head, and when they bow their head way down they tend to be akin to zooming in on detail. It comes from how evolution shaped human anatomy – which is universal too, alike on all planets, and thus God´s system too. The telescopes looked upward and the microscopes downward. There´s no other reason to represent upward on the diagram as “larger” and downward as smaller – it is basically history (evolutionary such) that determines that all planets represent up as large.
Plato: What about the horizontal time axis? Some cultures read and write from left to right and others from right to left.
God: Left-right and right-left is totally arbitrary – there was no evolutionary benefit in reading in one direction over the other, and there´s nothing in God´s work from which one can derive that one of these directions is more universal than the other. Looking at all infinitely many highly-civilized planets, it´s 50/50 whether they represent future to the left or to the right – but they do represent time horizontally because size naturally occupies the perpendicular vertical axis.
Plato: God, here´s a riddle for you: guess why you become less necessary due to the justification-relationship between sizes? Why does the vertical axis diminish your significance, at least regarding the bronze-age view of you and the view of you that combatants that think you choose sides in wars have?
God: It used to be said that I was the cause for everything. But with Reality being infinite and Reality coming as a size-time-diagram, and the relationship that runs up-down and down-up the vertical “size” axis being justification, there is one part less mystery to the existence of the world when the size-axis is infinite, meaning justification as a relationship between sizes has infinite reach. Justification means “the answer to the question: why is there X?” – X is justified (by the smaller and the larger than X). If the answer for why there is the field of science called size X i.e. why there are objects of particular size-dependant characteristics found in size X, the answer is because of the larger than X and because of the smaller than X. If that relationship between sizes runs infinitely deep into the infinitely large and into the infinitely small, then there is always a reason for the reason for the reason … for the reason why there are X-sized objects. The same reasoning works on the entire known size-range (which runs from cosmology/the visible universe to quantum physics): there is infinitely much reason/justification as smaller sizes (below our vertical axis on our diagram) and the same applies for the larger sizes: the “first cause” (as if there were one) keeps retreating the further we look for it and it can withdraw into infinity (because Reality is infinite).
Darwin: Ever since the first question about cause and effect was asked (in ape-man days) the answering reply was that some willing divinity had wanted whatever was asked about to exist – even be it the entire known world. The same answer has been given countless times in modern days. It took quite a while of civilizational progress before the answer to “why is there a world that ranges from large to small and small to large? Why is there everything between cosmology and quantum-physics size-wise?” was answered based on the hitherto established conclusion that Reality is infinite and that all parts of Reality fit on a size-time-diagram: the reason for why the known size-range exists is the infinitely small and the infinitely large – “our” size-range is but a part of an infinite size-range where the relationship of justification observed between any two sizes in our sizerange also exists between any sizes in the infinite size-range. The domain name
www.sizerange.com
was available until 2017, meaning not many people plot all knowledge on a size-time-diagram on a wall and reason that the reason why there is the vertical (size) axis in the first place is because it is infinite (giving “infinite justification” as the reason, and a valid reason it is!).
God: From concluding that Reality is infinite, you concluded that – since everything about Reality fits on a size-time-diagram – then size must be infinite, which gives a reason why there is any one size or any one size-range.
Plato: From ape-man days until modern times the word “God” was the reason for everything and anything´s existence, but ever since the discovery of the size-range being infinite God has one less “creating the world”-task to do; no longer is mystery or a will needed to explain why all fields of science (say, between cosmology and quantum physics) exist: infinite justification; infinity-symbols on each axis on the size-time-diagram.
Darwin: For the entirety of our evolution, our mental maps have incorporated things like where to go to find water, whom one´s parents are… – geographical and social maps have been our only maps. More near the modern times our maps became multi-purpose tools able to learn how to read/write and use computers. Tool-use/technology-use is something different, though, than having the entire context in which one lives be (represented as) a square with infinity symbols in each corner, with infinite size-justification and infinite time-justification being secured truths about the square. We evolved to have our largest context within which we live our lives be a geographical or social map, or something like a nation or religion (with its rituals etc) be both the binding force between people and the – rather mysterious-feeling – context and cause for one´s existence. The “theory of the world”, the map which incorporated all smaller maps like geographical and social ones, used to be the nation state or the religion one belonged to. And now it´s supposed to change into the multi-detail thorough-reasoned universal size-time-diagram? Never has the largests of the contexts for our lives been so dependant on logical argument, many facts – and never before has one´s widest map which explains one´s existence been so universal meaning there is no “us vs. them” in it. It´s truly a cosmopolitan universal identity many times more complex than any old national/historical/religious context/map/identity. The upside of it is that having it as the context one lives in and which explains one´s existence is a step in a more advanced, more peaceful, more universal direction.
God: I put that map there to be found by anyone who uses rationality to go through the steps taken in this universal sequence of rational conclusions following one another. Whenever one has reasoned one´s way to that Reality is infinite, it follows that if size is infinite then that´s one pillar/foundation/idea in an existential theory. This hints that there is a theory which explains the time-axis too, and a theory for why there is something rather than nothing filling the infinite square size-time-diagram. Once one has all three pillars to the existential theory, that sculpture should predict the advent of a reproducing piece of mass such as a DNA-strand. Size being infinite doesn´t explain the chronology from the Big Bang to the emptying universe, nor does it explain why there is something rather than nothing. An infinite size-range explains a third of what´s needed for a complete existential theory, so for now we´re assuming there is a sensical chronology to the history of the Big Bang and an explanation how nothing can summon everything in the size-range. The existential theory (the theory that answers: “why do we exist?”) rests on three pillars out of which the infinity of the size-range is one. Assuming two pillars (a pillar is a foundational idea on which the answers to all above questions sits – once all three pillars are in place the entirety of our Context (where and why we live our lives) is understood. Having all three pillars derived logically – like we did the infinite size-range-pillar – will be the universal Theory of Everything.
Darwin: The change of one´s grandest context is going quickly: for millions of years it was one´s family/tribe, then it became one´s ruler/nation/religion, then we went through a few -isms which were trying to dominate the whole world – capitalism winning throughout most of the world, yesterday people´s grandest context was either their bronze-age religion based on unfounded beliefs, or an incomplete science. Today it is a three-pillared existential theory which completes science by answering the large-scale chronology of the infinite time-axis and why the size-range is filled rather than empty. These three pillars taken together then predicts a world – not our world in particular but first a reproducing shape (a DNA-strand) and further on a universal world-view with pitfalls for the mind. The Grand Contexts (which explained one´s life) of nation, religion or -ism all had one thing incommon: logic (in the theory/context) wasn´t a pitfall for the mind. It´s a paradigm-shift to identify as an entity in a context that makes sense, requires a lot of logic and that our brain wasn´t adapted for (and thus the logic has pitfalls for the mind).
God: But after the world undergoes this paradigm-shift from mysterious and/or simple Grand Contexts like nation or religion, there won´t be any more paradigm-shifts in one´s identity coming: logic is the final solution – the lasting identity. Guess why 99.999999% of the planets within my infinite space has this paradigm-shifting three-pillared existential theory/Grand Context-mental map? It´s because it only takes one person to invent/discover it, and then it will spread and spread – and once a human has learned the true existential theory/”location of one´s life in the grand scheme of things”, it´s impossible to revert back to some context-map that lacks pitfalls that Darwin explains but also lacks explanatory value and a scientific vibe. It´s inevitable for advancing civilizations to walk God´s path of rationality until the brain evolved for tribe/nation/religion re-wires itself to adapt to a map/grand context/existential theory/reason for its existence consisting of logic, universal God´s sequences of thoughts with pitfalls for the mind. For millions of years we´ve had no pitfalls for the mind in our grand context-maps, nor have we had thorough explanations to why we´re here. Still 90% of the world´s population believes in a pitfall-free dogma- and ritual-based grand contexts – and bind to groups based on them (which will be a problem once the world starts to decline) – with mystery instead of logic because of our natural Grand Context being tribe/nation/religion. 99.999999% of civilizations across infinite space has the scientific rational map despite all its pitfalls (that are due to evolution wanting tribe/nation/religion as the Grand Context). We have millions if not billions of years left to live on earth – of course the Grand Context/existential theory founded on certain truth and built by rationality will outlive bronze-age pseudo-explanations to why we exist. The current world religions offer no explanatory value but they satisfy the mind´s need for a Grand Context by speaking about mysteries not meant to be understood, or unprovable statements that contradict the three-pillared built-from-certain-truth map which, unlike religions, is universal instead of dangerously “us vs. them”-mentality-creating. We should start turning down the heaters to reduce global carbon emissions, but instead we´re building up for war because of the “us vs. them”-mentality-creating nature of bronze-age Grand Contexts that satisfy but don´t explain, that dictate and order around but offer no logic/rationality, that say “don´t understand that – it´s a mystery” instead of “here´s the explanation but your evolved mind will find it to be a pitfall”.
Plato: do you think that a person who is a fresh slate and given the two options – modern truth or bronze-age religion – and fully understood both options, would rather take the religious choice because it requires no thinking for yourself (instead it offers very clear rituals and dictates), contains mysteries (like a talking God who gives revelations such as “don´t eat pork”) instead of logic with logic´s inevitable pitfalls for the mind (such as that it´s hard to comprehend an infinite size-range being just one pillar out of three in an existential theory that deals with Big Bang and evolution)? Also, religions offer unfounded carrots at the end of the road: you get to heaven after you die.
Socrates: I think it´s hard to choose the untruth once you know the truth. But while your mind is firmly planted in untruth it´s certainly as comfortable as a con-man´s gentle voice. Truth and rationality demand you pause and verify based on your own logic; mystery can be as easily held onto as it is comforting that, say, one is being taken care of by a God which is not an infinite uncaring sizerange, but instead somekind of willing mind that interferes with his Creation through mysteries (which beg you do not even try to understand them, unlike logic which takes effort to comprehend). The battle between the paradigm-shifting three-pillared existential theory and the bronze-age religions reveal the grandest of all pitfalls for the mind: we are, due to having lived so for millions of years, inclined toward: getting a clear list of orders and rules to obey to get a mysterious pleasant gift at the end of the road; being told that the rationale through which Creation spawns is a mystery, yet satisfying one´s thirst for an answer that can bind the group together by having “…in 6 days.” as a to-be-remembered part of the creation story / existential theory. That covers rituals and dogmas. We´ve had language for hunderds of thousands of years and science for a few hundred years – most talk ever produced ordered people around (rituals) and gave a Grand Context which could unite a group and give an “us vs. them”-attitude (dogmas). Science and logic has lead to a world-view which lacks rituals, causes as much group-cohesion and “us vs. them”-mentality as knowing math, contains ideas and rationales which are pitfalls for the mind – tasks we are barely fit to accomplish, and we accomplish them uncomfortably (we´d prefer a mystery where we can be lazy and not even try to understand it). 99.9999999% of planets have this ritual-lacking pitfall-full logically exhausing non-mysterious “think for yourself” dogma-free Grand Context for their lives because the history of a planet is so very long – we are only halfway through our earth´s history. But we better hurry up in spreading the truth based on logic because religion causes large-scale grouping (“us vs. them”-mentalities in vast groups of people) which causes wars against other groups. These wars, with exceptions for Afghanistan, Syria, Iraq and Libya are rare now because of uninterrupted economic growth, but when an economic decline, global warming or peak oil makes people feel hopeless and futureless, they´ll use their holy book-based group-bond to cause trouble – and trouble is bigger when the group is big; religion has always been a tool for making the group as big as possible. When group-binding over holy books is gone, it´s safer to have an economic decline because humans won´t have a group-mentality build in as enormous a flocks of people as religion has group-mentality build in today. The only way to get rid of large-scale uniform groups i.e. religions is to appeal to people´s reasoning. Starting from certain truth, etc…
Plato: So until we get the rational intellectual tradition to take over in the world, we´ll propably have a slow simmer of smaller wars where group-bonding is based on different interpretations of holy books – even though the current refugee crysis from Syria/Iraq is the biggest flow of refugees in a century, it´s still small potatoes compared to what´s coming if global warming, peak oil or an economic crysis hits: then we´ll regret that we didn´t do everything in our power to prevent large-scale group-bonding because a large war is worse than a small war. Once cities start drowing because of sea-level rise, or oil prices rise due to us having burned all of it, people will be desperate to survive and we´ll see them bind together based on some principle / anything incommon – and I´m sure it will be religion.
Plato: What would the case be if everyone dropped religion and instead took everything they needed from the logical existential theory?
Socrates: Well, the italians wouldn´t fight the french. Nationhood is no longer a legitimate-enough binder. Family-ties, acuaintances and friends… It´ll be wars between two tiny neighbouring villages, but multiplied all-over the world.
Author
yonis
Posted on
15/03/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Plato and Socrates, God and Darwin
Posts navigation
Page
1
Page
2
…
Page
5
Next page
Search for:
Search
Recent Posts
Music for the sci-fi movie
New Trial By Fire
Dagbok/diary 1 april 2017
A
Music
Recent Comments
Dagbok/diary 1 april 2017 – Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
on
Action thriller scifi book
Archives
April 2017
March 2017
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
January 2016
Categories
Dagbok
Old
OldDagbok
The book + diagrams
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.org
Jonatan Mustonen – yonis1@gmail.com
Proudly powered by WordPress

Jonatan Mustonen – yonis1@gmail.com – Manuscript for sci-fi action thriller movie where the main character inputs science to the religiousphere
Skip to content
Jonatan Mustonen – yonis1@gmail.com
Manuscript for sci-fi action thriller movie where the main character inputs science to the religiousphere
Music for the sci-fi movie
Boze started a band named Sadistic Servant because he obeyed his power-urge, sarcastically saying “mister”, ignoring that he is a serving caregiver, sadistically taking every opportunity in dialogue to be authoritarian i.e. more powerful than his peer. He doesn´t have much power outside his band and is too uneducated to realize about himself that he is in a power-urge-state of mind. Luckily the internet provided alternative access to minds/thoughts. Being a servant pissed Boze off and thus he became a sadist power-grabbing in dialogue, say by mentioning his authority over The Toolkit which was an injection. He could say pretty much what he wanted, acting like a deranged king, and what he did say showed his very low status in real life – for example he burps in public, not having learned mutual respect over the smell- and auditory environment. Loud-voiced was he too. He kept his underlings at bay by frightening them into submission – submission to a burping, farting bum sadistically giving injection-needles like himself. His salary was his ruling through sadism, but the debt he gained was not to his conscience about those who felt pushed around by him, but instead his freedom to act at work as he acted at home. Bullies enjoy people fearing them – that is their salary; the debt they gain is that in order to feel powerful they need to, as little as possible, serve caretakingly. The more he served (which he thought was below his status) the more revengeful he became and was paid his salary through sadismizing those who he had served. I guess all people have a little bit of serving caregiver and ignorant sadist in them, but some more than others – serving and sadism are opposites and the environment in which a person dwells can push the balance to either one extreme or the other. Sadly, those who got pushed by their environment into 0 sadism and 100% servism changed environment quitting their job. Those whoms pendulum swinged more toward sadism finished work every day leaving all power at/to work, having no power at home – they longed back to work; back to the bleakness of power over fools whom one serves.
Talking to peers like they were unruly children, himself slopping like a dirtbag fiddleing thoughts which´s origin was not in anything appriciatable like science, poetry or music – even caregiving.
He thought he could raise his peers/subjects, steering them through his uncivilized non-educated mind “in the right direction”. But who would want to become what he has become? No-one. Yet he steers people, through his power over injections, into his sphere of influence i.e. path in life and his culture of using ambition to bully instead of using ambition to accomplish art. To him, the sword (or rather needle) was more powerful of a weapon to steer people into his cultural sphere of influence, than the pen. Him talking revealed that nothing of importance was going on in his mind – so why would anyone listen to what he has to say? Because he says them in an authoritarian high-power way, polluting the mind. The feedback loop of people fearing – and thus respecting – him led him to delusionally believe his way of life was right – that his thoughts were worth making the effort to utter – that they didn´t pollute the minds of others.
He contributed to his plans – the plans of steering others – from stereotypical simple thinking (thoughts not worth uttering). He had never met anyone unique and thus he didn´t see other paths in life than the typical “normal” ones.
He even tried to steer unique personalities/plans into his sphere of influence – a trash culture.
Sadistic Servant never became a successfull band eventhough their marketing was violent. Sadistic Servant is left out of the narrative/story of the thriller. It was just an anomaly – a blip on the radar screen that came and disappeared – in the big picture of things. Not helpful except in spurring the anxiety that makes creative people creative. He was a rule-abider who used his authoritarian loud voice to steer people – even unique such – into abiding the same rules that he abided. He obeyed his authorities – the law – and steered others toward the law, “the law” being made by an ignorant individual just like himself. It was like he was referring to himself; circular authority always pointing backwards in a loop. Infinity. He never broke out of his bubble – he was 60 years old and old dogs don´t learn new tricks.
I get that you use authority, banging your chest like King Kong but in talk and burps, once the situation is heated. So maybe his situation/mind-state was always heated, or he just used his bullyism in “inappropriate” relationships/situations: meaning all the time!
“Empty your mind – be formless, shapeless like water. If you put water into a cup it becomes the cup. You put water into a water, it becomes water. If you put water into a tea-cup it becomes the tea-cup. Now, water can flow or it can crash – be warned. The pen is water and is mightier than the muscle.”
Author
yonis
Posted on
01/04/2017
01/04/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Music for the sci-fi movie
New Trial By Fire
In my sci-fi novel, the main character (the villain) explodes an empty bridge (add futuristic special effects to the movie), develop dialogue and drama. But he blew up the bridge to say to the audience he entertains – to teach them science:
“
www.sizerange.com
-Empty your mind  by placing any and every idea in the space into which you´ve dedicated the concepts “one unseeable Reality (defined as “that of which all is part” or “anti-distinction”)”, vacuum (0, spacetime), and the self/soul (which you can´t separate yourself from).
– Everyone needs to be seen, unless one puts that urge for friendship into the above mentioned empty space so that one can circle it like a shark circling its prey, making descriptions as its trail in the ocean.
– There´s no central concept more important than the unseeable concepts / there´s no concept separate from Reality (“that of which all is part”), and therefore people who put concepts in the center focal point of attention (where the concept “Reality” sits) don´t think clearly. It´s our evolved urge for power which makes people put ideas/concepts/words into the empty mind-space called Reality – because they arrive and intonate certain words as conclusions eventhough they´re small-talk and there´s no firm conclusion EVER (except that it´s all part of the invisible Reality).”
Author
yonis
Posted on
01/04/2017
01/04/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on New Trial By Fire
Dagbok/diary 1 april 2017
If my scifi-action-thriller manuscript ( http://www.sizescale.com/2017/03/28/action-thriller-scifi-book/ ) gets made into a movie by me going to LA, the fact that my thriller-book accurately predicts the consequences of an economy in permanent decline (due to global warming + the end of oil) can aim people at solving the problem my book mainly deals with: religious sects (wanting nukes) vs. a rational secular west. By my scifi-action-manuscript succeeding, I can launch science into the religious sphere of influence (religiousphere).
Launching science into the religiousphere is more important than 15k and more important than even my mother´s emotions. She was slowing me down by not financing my creative productive writing. But now I got 15k, sadly having hurted my mom (but shown her that she should be dedicated to sciencing the religiousphere too), to spend in the USA. What should I do for 1 month? Maybe spend 3k.
Author
yonis
Posted on
01/04/2017
Categories
Dagbok
Leave a comment
on Dagbok/diary 1 april 2017
A
When life is in a crysis, know that it is unseeable i.e. all imaginations of it are wrong – it is invisible – “it” being babylon, babylon being society/the city. Why is babylon invisible? One cannot aim straight on the target (target=babylon) and hit it – one can only have accurate description (of the target) if one circles the target like a shark or hits the arrows everywhere around the target. Having one´s mind geared toward not putting any concept in the bullseye, but instead having reasonings surrounding the bullseye relieves the crysis and makes one think clearer. It is an anxiety-causer to always put ideas in the center bullseye – it makes one less of a thinker. Is it valid to think of the invisible bullseye and put one´s efforts into describing it around (like a shark circling)? Yes, for many reasons: Reality (that of which all is part) is the opposite of distinction and representation/observation is distinction – distinction “can´t see” anti-distinction. But the more important reason for why one should have one unseeable idea which one describes circling like a shark is what this unseeability does in the brain: allows one to not stop on “the most important idea/conclusion” but instead make a lot of circling description, allowing for longer reasoning. It´s a thinker´s toolkit – to have an unthinkable thought.
Focusing on unseeable ideas like the Oneness of Reality (energymasspacetime), vacuum (spacetime; 0) or the self (which can´t be seen because one cannot separate oneself from oneself) – or all three unseeable ideas at the same time  because they are a conglomeration – let´s one insert any idea (such as babylon (“the city”) or people/individuals) into the central bullseye (the spot occupied by the unseeabilities (Reality, vacuum, the self)).
First, during many years, training the mind to circle around an invisible idea (Reality, say) lets one put ideas like personalities/occupations/babylon as a whole into the invisible to be circled. This brain-training lets one describe further than ever before because one is prepared to circle forever instead of arrive at the bullseye.
(The mind putting any one idea as a  bullseye (non-invisible focal point) confuses i.e. distracts one from thinking in a scientific/universal way.)
Author
yonis
Posted on
31/03/2017
31/03/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on A
Music
All music on this youtube channel is really good.
Author
yonis
Posted on
29/03/2017
29/03/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Music
Action thriller scifi book
scifi book
There´s this internet worm, I won´t say its name. If you know its name you´ll get pulled toward opening it. If you open it you become a mindless zombie looking at its viral content.
The source code is known by hackers and gangsters in China, Russia etc and they use the worm to make you pay for internet content.
The main villain wants to infect everyone´s brains with it but there´s one cop who knows its name and pulls against the addiction to save humanity. They keep their locations secret from one another because they both fear one another. Media tried to report about the worm but only made the problem worse by getting unaddicted people to search for it. So nowdays media won´t report it.
The villain is like a tagging graphitti guy wanting everyone “to go through the wormhole” so that he can experiment with a new kind of nuke. One of these nukes can destroy a planet. He entertains people addicted to his internet content by wanting to blow things up. He needs to keep his fanbase addicted by making more spectacular stunts all the time. Once you watch his entertainment you realize he kindof graphitti tags his viral content with the secret name to make people look for it again.
In the first scene he jumps from a bridge and graphitti tags MS on top of a 5-letter word that connects to the word “… Bridge”. Before hitting the water he becomes a blue light that fades into invisibility/transparency as he plummits deep into the water – he has a backpack on his back with this invincibility shield in it that protects him from collisions by making a sphere of blue-hued energy around him. “If you grab 60% of the world´s resources and invest it into one guy´s gear, you get an invincibility shield, a jetpack, etc.” he said.
In 2050 it was 40 years after The Book had been published, the whole world had united around one world view, the author of the book had become the most famous and thus most powerful person in the world and ended the war in Syria by everyone siding on making it a US colony. That happened one year after ISIS had exploded their first nuke, killing 100 000 people in one instant. The nuclear terror attack made people look away from entertainment and they started studying instead, and as occurs
on all planets: their studies became more and more focused on one person´s teachings/philosophy. The problem was that he got all the fame in the world, and to uphold the people´s attention – whom´s attention first got to him by The Book mentioning the possibility of an internet worm that makes people addicted to googling for the secret keyword which the villain graphitti tags wherever he travels.
After the detonation of the first ISIS nuke, people in the west started getting interested in protecting themselves instead of being entertained. They found the best protection in learning and teaching science, to defeat the belief that God wrote the Quran (which is the main belief that drove ISIS to detonate the nuke).
Science disproved that God wrote the Quran, The Book made this clear. The whole western world united in knowing, studying and teaching The Book/The Theory, to defeat religious extremism which now was nuclear.
The villain had become foremost at spreading the internet worm – outcompeting russians and Chinese hackers and gangsters all around the world by connecting his worm´s name to The Book/The Theory which united the world. People became addicted to the villain´s entertainment once they saw the viral content his worm produced; the content itself was basically the villain using his technological and economic superiority to cause havoc and “do pranks” in the world. He didn´t try to
kill but sometimes people died – for the greater good of the whole world following his entertainment so they wouldn´t fight
eachother now that the economy was globally known to be in a permanent fall – oil had ended in 2040 and global warming had let the oceans swallow many major coastal cities in the world. 30% of the global population were refugees. Though united in world-view (and most in entertainment too: watching the villain), economic disparities still caused crime at levels unheard of during the earlier 100 years. Rich vs. poor was not an ideological conflict, unlike Religion vs. The Book. But religion, now nuclear, held
on and had become an isolationist clan which capitalized on its nuclear power to keep people from leaving their sect. Thus religion saved itself from scientific rationale. Scientific rationale dominated the west, but there was no way to spread The Book to
within ISIS/religious territory because of the religious´ nuclear threat toward the inland cities that were safe from global warming, like Las Vegas. But the oil crisis had made fueling the city a thing for the elite – you basically had to be worth no less than $10 million to have the standard of living which the 2010´s middle class enjoyed in 2010. Now that middle class was outside the megacities´ border walls, engulfed in violence, torn between joining nuclear sectarian religious sects or atheistically beliving in what´s certainly true, trying to uphold civilization and become rich enough to move into the megacities´ sphere of influence.
It´s ironic that entertainment made mankind ignore science until ISIS got nuclear parity with the superpowers (you just need one nuke to get that – because that’s enough to wipe out any city). The villain, being partly hero´ifyed by the western rational populations for having connections to the author of The Book (the science book which unified the world), needs to produce more entertainment all the time – more spectacular stunts – to stay in power; people get addicted to him by seeing his content (partly though the worm appearing on computers) and that drives him to try to gain more control over peoples´ minds. He supports the rational powers against the religious fanatics, but can only keep that power in grasp while people are entertained by his viral content. He needs to perform stunts – more spectacular every time (but no nuclear stunts against the religious because that´d make the religious destroy western megacities) – to keep people within the rational sphere of influence. It´s so easy to turn to religious sects in times of war, a forever declining economy and outrageous crime-levels – but the religious also offer a economic deal: “join us to be with the (though evil (but they don´t say that)) simple force that will win over the hard-won complex logical philosophy that the westerners use as their theory of everything”. The simple will win, is their motto. You can very
well imagine other planets become 100% religious, living under Quranic sharia law, because of the two forces pulling people toward religion: existential crisis over a hostile environment, and the argument that the simple (religious world-view) will outlast
the bleak scientific world-view. The religious stay in power by keeping The Book out of sight. The westerners try to get books to be read by the religious – and the villain agrees with this by trying to entertain as much as he can (given his economic superiority that comes from people paying for his internet content), through that entertainment getting into any religious person´s brain. But it´s hard to weave together entertainment with scientific philosophy – people will watch the entertaining bangs and skip over the critical thinking needed to get convinced. That´s the reason why the jihadists gained nuclear power in the first place, it´s the reason why the sect stays intact, it´s the reason why the planet is divided not only in rich and poor, but also in
a religious geopolitical sphere of influence and a bleakly rational sphere of influence – neither being able to militarily change their borders because of nuclear parity.
The gulf states had, eventhough being muslim at first and some rich kids even sending money to ISIS, joined the western sphere of influence while keeping a moderate muslim world-view compatible as
unfounded belief (based on that “God wrote the Quran”) joined together with the rational minimalistic world-view dominant in the west. How had
the gulf states been saved from joining the religious sect nuclearly enveloping half of the world? In 2020 the villain had just gained power by The Book becoming famous along with him, and by being the most famous person in the world he had, as a stunt (it seemed), legalized weed in the gulf states (and in the western world the populations later legalized in 2023 by democratic vote). Why did weed get legalized by the villain? The populations of countries, especially in the gulf states, were stuck in a propaganda loop where the state demonified cannabis, then the population of course, trusting the state´s anti-weed propaganda, wanted more measures (from the government) to control (prohibit) weed, and all the government did was make more propaganda gestures to further amplify the populations´ demands for more action by the government. It was a vicious circle that kept ignorance high and weed illegal. But as the villain got power by becoming famous he overruled the propaganda circle and just stated that weed is
now legal. His power made his word become law – imagine him as an Einstein times ten, but instead of writing a nuclear development recommendation for the USA in the 1930s-1940s, the villain, by being connected and mentioned in The (science) Book, was an Einstein times ten that wrote a weed-legalization recommendation. The propaganda circle between populous and state (where the population indirectly demanded more anti-weed propaganda by being scared from the previous round of propaganda) were involved was broken by one man´s order over-night. How does this connect to the religious nuclear issue? Weed-smoking gulf states joined forces between rich and poor, discussed The Book in depth and instituted the “stable” system that had always ruled USA: there´s no civil war (between a rich government and a large populous) and instead there was the situation that had always been in USA: poverty causing crime – but no civil war. Individualism prevented civil war in the gulf states by them adopting the US system economically, and they got individualism from the long thought-out discussions that weed promotes. Legalizing weed made their “king vs populous”-problem like that in the USA and their religious problem so that they kept moderate Islamic customs/traditions, they know their dogmas are unfounded, they even know that science disproves that Reality/God can author a book (the Quran) because…
The villain, working alone and with much of the world´s economy backing him by people paying for his entertainment, increased his stock (meaning he got more people to latch onto his entertainment) by jumping off of a bridge, graphitti tagging his prohibited entertainment channel´s name on the bridge, and using his invincibility shield protecting him from even getting wet when hitting
the water. This stunt the villain used to state a boring fact of science to his audience (whom had already read The Book where the basics of the world-changing science was explained): “God didn´t write the Quran because God is an energymasspacetime sizerange infinite toward the large, the small and in time – and this conglomeration of ideas (energymasspacetime sizerange) has both opposites of distinction and anti-distinction in it”. That sentence alone was enough to further weaken the religious stronghold,
eventhough the religious argued that the statement was bullshit and made no sense (a position they could uphold by having prevented The Book from entering the religious sphere of influence).
You´d think that since the entire western world agreed on the rational scientific theory, that it´d be assumed as true by the ISIS members too. But since it´s not in their sect´s economic interest to acknowledge to validity of The Book they did just like the Nazis did toward Einstein´s theory of relativity: “oh, it´s jew science!”. They dismissed it as being “not them” and thus wrong.
The villain, by his entertainment being internet content, then showed these pictures in his video:
Why did the villain create the internet worm which´s name is unknown/secret because it draws people to follow him, giving him power? He had failed at becoming famous from creating a universal animal with a universally engineered emotional repertoire. His goal first was to follow the utilitarian principle of “maximum happiness… for people” and so he used genetic research to insert emotions into a brain – emotions which evolution made unavailable to brains because evolution is only about maximizing survival and reproduction; evolution is not geared toward making a maximally happy animal (happiness-emotions) but humans are through genetic engineering.
The villain had succeeded in getting the financial resources needed to genetically engineer super-happy emotions into our emotional repertoire (our set of emotions), but being always in a super-happy state – lacking all negative emotions (even hunger) – made the “universal animals” passive, looking like komatozed vegetables. It didn’t impress the entertainment-seeking human audiences no matter how much the scientists behind the genetic engineering emphasized that “this is the animal other planets end up with too, by virtue of it being as happy as any brain in the universe can maximally be.” Not entertaining. That´s why the villain created a worm that goes from computer to computer, person to person, “infecting” them to watch the villain´s entertaining content on the internet – getting them addicted to paying more to the villain, who uses the money to create more spectacular entertainment i.e. do more spectacular stunts and finance more spectacular inventions for his own personal use.
Author
yonis
Posted on
28/03/2017
28/03/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
1 Comment
on Action thriller scifi book
Youtube comment
You’re gonna be big one day. Make a song about religions arising from thinking about distinction (there is thinker AND thought) and that there is anti-distinction (Reality is one; E=mc^2 means energymasspacetime), and we are in distinction’s realm when we observe/see (representation is distinction). The opposition between distinction and antidistinction (that we can’t see reality as a whole) means the size and time axises on a diagram are infinite. Everything happens because it has a reason in the larger, the smaller and in time. The falsity of religions is that this anti-distinction One Reality doesn’t write holy books because it’s just an infinite size-time-diagram of energymasspacetime and distinction&antidistinction – it’s not in such a thing’s nature to write a Quran.
Author
yonis
Posted on
24/03/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Youtube comment
Humanisterna
1
The universal text
I can tell you everything about God. This book won’t be a commentary on any holy book though; it won’t be in the tradition of interpretation of dogmas, sagas and mysteries. It won’t be a mystic’s spiritual book which disengages the rational analytical mind. Instead I’ll tell you everything about God in the tradition that Einstein and philosophers belonged to. It will be an algebra-like linguistic relationship-between-symbols (with just two visuals) analysis of what’s true.
I can tell you everything about God in the rational tradition – but before you think this will be an atheistic refutation of God, I might aswell reveal beforehand that God & Soul are legitimate concepts and we’ll discover their rational roots tens of thousands of years ago in this book. There is a natural narrative i.e. logical cohesion from step to step in the anatomy/history of the brain that leads up to the invention of God & Soul. The mind-processes/conscious abilities which result in God & Soul being realized and thus the ideas getting an impact on the world are utilized by simple means – it is relatively easy to just stumble upon God as an idea. This is why God & Soul date back to caveman days – they’re one of the earliest artifacts of civilization: like the spear.
To tell you everything about God I should do semantics i.e. define what I mean by the word God. I won’t mention dogmas other than The Golden Rule (do onto others like you’d want them to do onto you) not rituals other than showing universal scientific symbols (like the figures in this book) – what I’ll tell you about God will be rational/abstract/theoretical and not some pretext for following one culture’s dogmas/rituals over the other 10 000 religions’ dogmas/rituals.
I’ll show you how to for yourself figure out what God is, instead of turn you to any particular raising-paradigm/holy book.
There are three groups of people:
The intellectuals who are life-long learners learning for learning’s sake; the readers who are curious for the joy of answers and read for reading’s sake.
Those who see some reason to read/learn. I’ll tell you that the reason for making the arguments in this book popular is because almost every single war/conflict in today’s world is God-related. Knowing this book shows solidarity toward soldiers (if it’s a religious war) – teaching the idea that this book teaches can save soldiers’ lives. There is the moral argument that “it is more moral to drink & drive than to not save soldiers’ lives by helping make a book/idea popular”. If made popular, this book can make ISIS desintegrate and plunge into a civil war because nothing no longer binds them together in large a group (like “the kaliphate/the Quran/their god does).
Those who are not intellectuals/readers nor do they show solidarity toward everyone negatively impacted by misinterpretations of religions.
The name of this book hints at that I’ll try to write as closely as possible to what all revalations claimed to be: universal i.e. applicable to everyone. I’ll try to make the sequence of logic i.e. arguments i.e. what’s akin to an equation as universal as possible, meaning it can be figured out / derived no matter who or where one is. The implications of this is that this semi-revalation sequence-of-argument/logic is derived from the same Source identically on every human-like-life bearing planet in this infinite universe. This is why I call this text “The First Universal Text” preassuming the footnote that this text marks the beginning of a new intellectual tradition which is defined by its mission: to write universally. The idea in this book can be told in many less universal ways (which are maybe 0.001% of how the idea is “usually” (in the infinite universe) taught), but I’ll try to aim for the 99% usuality of how the idea is usually taught i.e. how the curriculum meta to the idea is designed. How do you design the curriculum – when a million different curriculums are possible and result in the readers learning the same idea – to be as universal as possible?
Instead of teaching the idea/science in a random order, can we derive from logic some starting points for the course (making the curriculum universal)? Yes: two starting points stand out akin to that it is logical to teach history chronologically; the two starting points for understanding God/creation/the universe are Nothingness & “I think & I am”.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
The first order of business is defining the starting points along the “Nothingness”-path & the “I think & I am” path.
Everyone spontaneously believes that he/she exists & that he/she thinks thoughts, but a man
figured this out
in the 1600s. He asked: “what in an allmighty demon would be fooling me in everything I can be fooled at/in?” What remains? Allmighty fooler on a mission to fool completely in everything.
He figured out “I exist” because there is a self necessary for a/that self to be fooled.
As a distinct line of reasoning he figured out that “being fooled is [thinking/a thought-process]”, in other words that thought exists as certainly as the self.
That is the starting point on the “I think & I exist”-path.
The man who figured this out in the 1600s, Descartes, didn’t do it to make a joke abour proving scientifically the most obvious, but he knew he had discovered a globally understandable starting point
with much significance for religious conflicts. Descartes was invited to live at the queen of Sweden’s castle because of his creative rational thinking. He also invented the coordinate system ( x & y axis) to contribute to mathematics’ intellectual tradition. In this book we’ll reach Descartes’ coordinate-system invention (with size on the y-axis and time on the x-axis as the size-time diagram into which every object fits in as a coordinate) from Descartes’ “I think & BI am”-invention; the two are connected in logic but were not historically connected/associated together until I did it (400 years after Descartes invented both things).
How can you verify that what I said right now is true? I stated a historical claim about the non-associatedness of two ideas (invented by one and the same thinker). Unless you’re a history-of-science intellectual-tradition-historian you’d have a hard time verifying my claim of me deserving a prize for adding the logic that connects “I think & I am” to mathematics’ coordinate system (and the size-time diagram more specifically). Luckily the best university professors in sciences’ intellectual history are available on the internet (The Great Courses.com) and they go specifically into this topic in the “Philosophy of Mind” and “History of Science” courses – and since the best professors mention Descartes’ two ideas in one breath but not the connection between them in a 40-lecture course, you know that not even the best current minds know the connection i.e. I’ve invented something new (which is the logic that binds the two ideas together). It is fascinating, though, that one man (Descartes) invented two ideas that would be connected into a single logical sequence in which both ideas are necessary 400 years after his death.
Descartes’ certain truth (I think & I am) is in scientific circles referred to as “cogito ergo sum”, which is latin for:
- cognition (thinking)
- ergo = therefore
- sum = existence / I am.
I prefer to call it “I think & I am” though because it (especially the &-symbol) points out that they/there are two distinct conclusions – the logical pathways for deriving them are slightly different from one another.
Remember this as the word “distinction” because we’ll continue from that word when we return to this topic.
Chapter 2
I think & I am being derived as two distinct/separate statements through two distinct logical paths is quite abstract since some of the reasoning contains no pictures – the visual brainhalf is at some moments during the reasoning disengaged, making those parts of reasoning abstract. We’ll encounter much more abstract reasoning-pathways in this book, which is why it’s important to, in the beginning of the book, do reasoning about why some abstract reasonings are so hard to grasp that it took until the 21
st
century (me) to discover them.
As evolved animals we are made to maximize our re-arrangement of the natural, physical world for evolutionary benefits. We are not made to re-arrange the (non-existent; for superstitious people only) spiritual world. Nor are we made to deal with invisible mental objects – and we’ll deal with three of them – like glass windows. As long as we’ve had possessions we’ve had the ability to recognize if some possession was missing – we’ve had the cognitive system for spontaneously counting/seeing zero long before written symbols for numbers were invented. Written symbols for positive numbers were
invented before the concept zero was invented. Zero, however, is one of those words which’s understanding shouldn’t conjure up any visuals. There can be plenty of linguistic explanation of features associated to the concept zero and one of them is that zer is non-visual (shouldn’t conjure up imaginations) meaning that the visuals we use for representing zero (such as the symbol 0) are just fingers pointing to a deeper tunderlying truth (which is invisible) – don’t look at the pointer/finger; but why does the brain have a hard time doing this? The simple answer is that we evolved to re-arrange the visible – we had no evolutionary benefits from the invisible.
It gets quite abstract, unintuitive and for said evolutionary reasons “unusual” (and civilized) when we’ll, later in this book, account for the explanation-based connections between three invisible (purely linguistic) ideas/concepts.
The reason why the message of this book is unintuitive (didn’t use to be an evolutionary benefit) and was discovered first in the 21
st
century has its explanation in the evolution & anatomy of the brain. Evolution and anatomy go hand in hand like history shapes architecture and intrastructure shapes history. It’s worthwhile looking at which evolution+anatomy-explanation, other wthan “we evolved to deal with the visible world and thus feel awkward about the invisible”, explains our repulsion toward the abstract/invisible eventhough our logic proves that it is true – the idea of this book is much like algebra and we should now look at why, evolution-anatomically, require a while to get as comfortable as one can get to the invisible ideas of this book.
We have two major modalities for remembering/understanding/explaining things: the visual (sensory) and the linguistic (abstract). They cooperate to let the animal adapt to its environment (by, for example, making plans based on future predictions (which themselves are based on abstract and sensory memories)). Some things that the visual brainhalf can do the abstract can’t do and vice versa. Whichever brainhalf most efficiently and strongly accomplishes a task is utilized to make the animal competative in the chase for evolutionary benefits.
This cooperation and communication between the two differentrly specialized brainhalves is a function/mutation which arose because it gave evolutionary benefits. The genes that gave rise to this brainhalves-cooperating-function – which is based on either brainhalf specializing in either the visible or the invisible/abstract field of cognition – built on the earlier mutation/evolutionary benefit/trait of having a flexible (during the lifetime changing) part of the brain known as cortex.
The cortex first arose to “adapt the brain to the body” meaning that if the body mutated/got a birth defect/got injured/muscles got tired or weak, then still the animal could function to maximize evolutionary benefits despite its new bodily circumstances. The brain adapting to the body, in case let’s say an injury to the body, gave the organism a Super Mario-like extra life/extra chance – for example a bird with a 50% weaker left wing than right wing could, because of the flexible cortex, know/learn/acknowledge its disposition and adapt tits behavior/muscular movements to counteract the disadvantages that would’ve came about if the animal didn’t have a cortex. For example a bird meant to fly straight (seeing a butterfly in front of it) with a 50% weaker left wing would’ve sent the same muscular-activation-signal to both wings, but due to the weakness of the left wing the bird would’ve been flying counter-clockwise circles/faulty steering. With a small part of the bird’s brain that’s flexible i.e. able to learn, the saying “a cat has nine lives” became more real. This is a major benefit from the rather small mutation of having a flexible middle-man in the feedback loop from and to the muscle. Parrots obviously have a flexible part of the brain since they can learn to mimic sounds, dating back the
first cortex to sometime around when birds had become complex enough to mutate just a few cortical neurons in the right place. The virtue of the very nature/anatomy of cortical neurons is that even a couple of neurons can be wired so that they 1) sense 100% activation of both wings intended by the brain, 2) sense feedback from the wings telling that the left wing only flexed with 50% of its strength, and 3) either inhibit the right wing’s activation by 50% or increase the muscular excitement to the left wing so that it reaches 150% - in either case the feedback loop with the flexible middleman makes both wings flap equally (if the bird wants to fly straight) even if one wing is injured/mutated/weak.
That is the origin/dawn/beginning of the cortex and dates it back to about 100 million years ago.
Building, through mutation, on that earliest cortex simpy enlargening the cortex would’ve allowed the cortical cells to exhibit new benefitial traits. Remembering that adapting (the brain) not only to one’s body but to the external environment too is, like cats do, building a simple mental map of the objects in one’s environment and learning from experience what can and can’t be done with them.
It’s quite straight-forward that a larger cortex – tin the animals whom need cognitive adaptiation to the environment to reap maximum evolutionary benefits – is better.
Along the story of humanity we formed hierarchical groups (king, aristocrats and slaves) and at about the same time possessions (and thus the first encounter with an abstract invisible: “my thing is missing!”) became a part of the human story.
Speaking of possessions – specifically the ownership of intellectual property – the courses I’ve seen on anthropology, archeology and Big History all fail to mention that the capitalist drive of the biggest cortexed proto-human smarting his or her way to the top of (or upward in the) hierarchy led to evolutionary pressures growing the cortex. The cortex with the most mass compared to its rival cortexes had 1) faster planning, 2) more memory and 3) more detailed social (personality) and environmental maps. Power-hungriness – the ambition to climb upward in the hierarchy – let to the cortex growing generation after generation. Among many reasons, other than that the king orders his protectors/servants, is that females are attracted to the king because he commands the most resouces (especiallyu food-supply (which is necessary for maximizing any female’s number of offspring)). The most modern/civilized analogy/equivalent to a large food-supply is possession of ownership of intellectual property – in this case the fact that one of the world’s best archelogists/proto-human experts said that it is an explicit eunexplained mystery/question of science why the brain/cortex grew so very much during the latest era of burst-like brain-growth (the past 100 000 years). I like I said, claim that it was hierarchical upward mobility (and the king having the most babies) due to faster-, more accurate-, based on more memorized foundation- and predicting further into the future-planning (cortical abilities which correlated to the size of the cortex and which are more likely to elevate one, instead of lower one’s status, in the hierarchy). My claim that hierarchies made the cortex grow is intellectual property of my ownership.
The reasons for growth of the cortex illuminate what hkinds of thinking the brain dealt with and is made to deal with. There’s even negative incentives to think about the invisible (like zero): we base our reasoning off of and on our planning ability. In our plans we use the mediating concept “then” alot, just like we do in algebra (1+1=2 is much like 1+1 then 2) & argument. In arguments you set up premises that lead to (“then”) conclusions which in turn (“then”) become premises.
In evolution (and thus in the anatomy of our brains) sometimes plans had or resulted in a “???”-step; if some premise/step/conclusion in a plan was empty, this was our “symbol” (null) for considering the plan impossible, unfinished or not worthwhile committing as action.
Since reasoning about universal curriculum starting points like “I think & I am” and all the arguments between the start and fully explaining God/creation/the universe as 21
st
century science involves legitimate but invisible arguments (like zero), this book can feel like a plan in which one step was null/empty – and thus, despite verbal logic’s disagreement, the theory of brain-evolution predicts that the logic will feel like a plan gone wrong (or which is unfinished/faulty). The impossibility of making the steps of argument/logic in this book visual – and explicitly claiming that we’ll deal with three distinct but invisible (and thus looking the same & making the “plan” (upon which reasoning is based) feel faulty). What speaks against the feeling of “fault in the plan/reasoning”, though, are that:
the logic, eventhough triggering the feeling of “this is faulty/unfinished” by speaking of any of the invisible concepts, makes sense by being thorough logic, like solving equations, beginning from the premise/conclusion of Descartes’ certain truth.
It is possible to know the message of this book (including the three interconnected invisible ideas) without knowing or having chosen a specific curriculum for teaching the idaeas. The fact that many people can formulate the same ideas and logic between novel associations in practically infinitely many ways, and still be agreed upon and comprehendable by peers shows the disconnect between the (more or less universal) curriculum and the (unchanging) underlying idea. The idea is the scientific world-view and there are unlimited ways to communicate/teach it. This scientific world-view is a new version, including a full explanation of God, of something that has been developing as a continuation of the history of (the curious, map-making) cortex.
Because argument/reasoning/logic is based on and is planted in planning (re-arraning real-world objects), truth/validity is based on the visualizable (“if you see it (happening in the future or further on in logic) you’ll believe it”) and we’ll be listing the facts about three unseeable objects, and world-views/diagrams which explain the universe/a coordinate-system-based existential theory is based on cognitive maps of the geographical and social environment, we’re using old cognitive abilities basically used for surviving on the savannah to do abstract 21
st
century science. This is why 21
st
century science feels awkward/unintuitive/faulty etc eventhough the logic can be put on paper like the solution of an equation, each step be verified, no faults found and thus one can feel the uniquely modern discongruity/mismatch between what one can 100% certainly know to be true, and the emotion which comes from the mismatch between, for example, an abstract diagram-based map of Reality and the cognitive million year old simple map-making-ability in which the 21
st
century abstract “map”/diagram is rooted. We’re using old abilities/mechanisms to do new things, overcoming rules like “if you can’t see one step (but “only” know it linguistically) the plan/reasoning is lacking” – we can use the number zero but thinking about its meaning in “101” (no tens) gives an awkward feeling of “something went wrong” (eventhough civilizing/reasoning/understaning/logic can subdue the awkward “something-went-wrong-because-I-can’t-see-it”-feeling. Likewise I will state “you can’t see X because...” at least three times in this book, explicitly claiming that that logic at that point will feel unintuitive (eventhough it can be put on paper and make sense) unless the feeling is subdued by civilizing. The evolved traits like “can’t see it = it doesn’t make sense yet = give it up” are why no-one discovered the message of this book until the 21
st
century. Our frontier-pushing reasoning is like a plant planted in a foundation (evolved cognitive
traits like “can’t see it = don’t believe it”) which is not very fertile for plants; if we are a plant, our roots have hit some poisons in the dirt. For 21
st
century reasoning, our brain as in obstacle course. We have some genetically-based cognitive hinderances for our universal reasoning.
Chapter 3
If we call the path that begins with “I think & I am” “path A”, since we have two equally legitimate starting points to the curriculum that explains God, we can call the other path/starting point “path B”.
Definitions: all the following are synonyms: Nothing, spacetime, 0, zero, emptiness, non-existence, the void...
It’s legitimate to ask “what preceded [nothing]?” because we are in a non-empty universe which is becoming emptier by the moment (this is a well-known fact among cosmologists & the accelerating expansion/emptying is called “dark energy”). It is not legitimate, however, to ask the other “why?”-question about Nothingness: even though Nothingness has a chronological cause (because our universe will become nothing again), it doesn’t have a cause-and-effect relationship other than the chronological one, making the question: “why was there nothingness (and don’t give the chronological answer!)?” illegitimate. Nothingness is a starting point in reasoning
- it warrants no prior justification; as Kant would’ve said: it is the precondition in which everything happens: it is “a-priori” meaning none were prior to it in a meaningful cause-and-effect relationship because nothingness doesn’t exist. What doesn’t exist denies the question: “why does it exist?” – it doesn’t! This makes Nothingness a valid starting point, path B, in a universal curriculum. Nothingness and “I think & I am” are equally good starting points. Asking “what is true about nothing?” or ”what is true in nothing?” is the starting point along path B of this universal curriculum.
One thing I usually say about nothingness is that it is emptier than we can imagine it as. Whatever your mind can produce, it’s still the mind producing it – we can’t escape the mind’s perspective i.e. its biological nature of everything it does (even when saying “nothing”) being neurons. Real nothingness is emptier than even our concept of nothingness.
The first order of business regarding this starting point was defining it, finding out why it’s universally considered a curriculum’s starting point and asking the most fundamental question about it: “what is true about/in it?”. The sentence “having nothingness...” doesn’t make intuitive sense because “having” implies you have something of existence, but having non-existence as our starting-point and having asked a question about it, knowing that we asked a question about it, is where we’ll continue when we get back to path B – but first we’ll examine path A further: we have thinker, thought and distinction (we listed two things, not one, and by doing so we’ve listed three things and thus can count three distinct things including distinction itself).
Path C
Reality, by definition, is “that of which all is part”. A single word/concept of which all is part is the exact opposite of distinctiveness. We concluded that “certainly distinction exists” and we did so in a Reality of which all is part. We are playing around with both opposites: plurality (distinction) and singularity/monotheism (anti-distinction). That Reality is one, could’ve been one starting point all by itself. If we would’ve started with Reality – the most all-encompassing – then it would’ve led us to conclude path A (that we think & exist) and it could’ve led us to ask a question about nothingness. If we would’ve taken “Reality is one” as a starting point, it would’ve opposed the starting point “there is distinction”. Usually our logic tells us that where there is opposition, there is fault in our reasoning – but
this is obviously not true for considering the opposition between Reality (anti-distinction) and distinction. Both are legitimate words. The conclusion from pondering them – the elongation of path A – is that the opposition is a reason for why Reality can’t be, as thinkers & thoughts do, conceived. We never see reality as one – if we did then Descartes’ distinction between observer and object wouldn’t be true anymore. Reality can’t be seen/represented/observed/thought of fully/what-have-you because of the opposition between the starting points Reality is one and I think & I am (distinction vs. anti-distinction). It is thus not a statement about the Platonic cave-metaphor where our maps don’t correspond with (i.e. maps are distinct from) the territory; this is a statement about the “access denied” given to all distinct observers (and all observers are by Descartes’ definition distinct) to Reality – it’s a fundamental opposition (between distinction and anti-distinction, us and Reality) which makes Reality not even represented if there were no limits to representation (because the very act of representing is distinctioning). Regardeless of whether there are brains/computers to represent things (which, factually, there must be because as brains we define what represents what), but even if representation could be, in a thought experiment, presumed to happen without us or computers - then still that representation couldn’t represent That of which all is part. This is a very subtle point which differentiates my way of not seeing Reality from Plato’s way of not seeing Reality – I put emphasis on the opposition between distinction and anti-distinction, Plato noted that mental maps are not physical territories. Both ways of not seeing Reality are true and legitimate, but my way means more: it means that regardless of brains ever existing and “representation” being as loosely/vaguely defined by the universe as it can be in the universe, the distinction-anti-distinction-opposition still makes Reality infinitely much more than there can ever be to it. Let’s say that the part there is to it now represents “all of Reality” – then distinction-anti-distinction-opposition holds true and thus we get that there is more to Reality even than whatever was represented, no matter how it was represented. So even if we say that however much there is to Reality may represent itself (Reality), then still the opposition between thinker & thought’s distinction holds true and causes an opposition with the also true oneness of reality (anti-distinction).
21
st
century science is supposed to be subtle. The conclusion, however, from all of this is that there is more to Reality than any representation (regardless of brains) can represent i.e. Reality is infinite. Exactly in which ways (size and time, energymass & spacetime) Reality is infinite we’ll consider in the continuation of this path A. Though this seems like a lot of mental effort reading (the reason why it’s new is because it’s hard) but it is all necessary to lead up to an existential theory which includes all possible knowledge about God, and thus this book will have geopolitical impacts on conflicts. Usually Nobel prizes are awarded for finding something new about some size in the (thank’s to me) proven-to-be infinite Reality – what about being the first one to prove that Reality in fact has infinitely much to it?
Path A (thinker & thought) and path C (Reality is 1 i.e. antidistinction) both lead us to conclude that there´s infinitely much to Reality because of the distinction-antidistinction-opposition.
It´s worthwhile pausing on a sentence like that like it was programming source-code because it contains unseeable concepts (distinction, antidistinction, their opposition) and the infinity of Reality.
If we confine on path B (nothingness) and the fact that we can ask questions about it, let´s ask:
- which laws of nature are inherent in nothingness? Which unavoidable truths are true because of the rational framework of nothingness? Which equations couldn´t
not
be true?
0=0 i.e. nothingness is itself should be true. Zero does not equal five nor does five equal two. We´ve thus found that mathematics is inherent to nothing i.e. in empty space a triangle is not a sphere and all other geometric truths hold true.
E=mc
2
is one of those true equations – Einstein´s most famous equation. All I need to know about this equation are the meaning of the five words:
energy
equals
mass
times
the speed of light
squared
.
“The speed of light squared” is a reference to spacetime because speed is distance (space) over time. This, in the equation mentioned spacetime, is connected to “energy equals mass” through the multiplication sign. “Energy equals mass” warrants the word “energymass” as a synonym for Existence/the universe/”all movement, shining etc. (verbs) and the things that move, shine (nouns)”.
There are so many different explanation-traditions for E=mc
2
. Usually the practical real-world application-tradition overlaps with the mathematical tradition – theoretical physicists cooperate with experimental physicists. All I know about those explanatory views/intellectual traditions is that space (three dimensions) and time obviously are connected, warranting the word spacetime. But I also know that mass is made into energy in nuclear power plants and energy is made into mass in particle accelerators – these technologies prove that all energy equals mass and vice versa, warranting the word energymass. Energymass feels a lot like spacetime and is found in the same E=mc
2
-equation as spacetime. Energymass can be symbolized as ∞ - infinite existence while spacetime and 0 are synonyms.
Energymass (existence, ∞) and spacetime (zero, nothing) (and equations) is all there is to the universe/Reality. All the fundamental parts – the empty framework with its laws of nature and energymass –are in the same E=mc
2
equation. There´s nothing more to the cosmos than energymass & spacetime together (along with equations) and all of those parts are represented in one equation.
Since E=mc
2
is true in nothingness (like 0=0 is), we´ve reached “mentioning existence (starting point C)” from starting point B (nothing).
E=mc
2
being true at the very core of nothingness (like 0=0 is) tethers energymass (existence) to the very core of the framework. Existence is thus necessary if there is nothing (path B summons path C).
Existence (energymass) and non-existence are the core components of our Reality. They are connected and mutually interdependent as is shown in E=mc
2
. They are the space between and “behind/in” objects and the objects themselves, and all rules governing them – there´s nothing more necessary for a full explanation of energymasspacetime/Reality.
The more detailed description, coming from path A´s infinity of Reality, is that there is infinitely much energymasspacetime: the framework is infinite (spacetime is infinite) and what fills it is infinite (energymass/existence is).
The three paths have merged: path A (I think & I am, distinction) led to path C (there´s more to Reality than can be represented due to distinction-antidistinction-opposition) and path B led to defining Reality as energymasspacetime and making existence tethered to nothingness.
In the above sentence we have the seeds to:
- the chronological explanation with its infinite time-line, our universe acceleratingly emptying (observed fact) and nothingness having (laws of nature like E=mc
2
) existence (∞) tethered to it.
The “why existence?”-question – existence exists tethered to non-existence and only under those circumstances does it make sense for existence to exist.
Defining Reality as energymasspacetime (with the footnote from path A: that it is infinite (size-wise and time-wise)) and since it´s one and unseeable (due to distinction-antidistinction
opposition) calling it God or monotheism. If you do not worship the grandest (that of which all is part) then I don´t know what you are worshipping.
We don´t need any other concepts than those we´ve gotten from the universal starting points:
Infinity of Reality (infinitely small, infinitely large and infinitely much time)
Reality defined as energymasspacetime i.e. we exist in nothing and therefore it makes sense for us to exist; infinite nothingness and infinite creation.
The monotheistic nature of Reality: distinction (us)-antidistinction (it) being opposites, making it (Reality) inaccessible for representation (for the thinker & thought-realm) i.e. there´s more to Reality than any representation can validly claim to represent.
An infinite size-range & time-range (infinite spacetime as Reality is energymasspacetime and infinite) of E=mc
2
´s existence-nonexistence-duality (energymasspacetime) and distinction-antidistinction.
Infinite size-range; infinite time-range.
Of energymasspacetime (a synonym for Reality/God)
Distinction (separate entities; the infinitely many things) and anti-distinction (Reality is one) opposition (meaning it´s unintuitive but true – we didn´t evolve to consider “two simultaneous different ´events´ that co-exist/are the same” to be a valid reasoning).
The above three points stumble through the evolved mind´s obstacle course with its unseeabilities & abstract oppositions and is, taken as a whole, a full account for why we (and anything/Reality) exists.
An existential theory is a theory which explains any existing thing´s existence – the universally accepted existential theory has the 3 sub-ideas just listed. This makes it unintuitive/repulsive to our one-answer-seeking evolved logic, but all three sub-ideas are necessary and can´t be summarized into a smaller compartment than “infinite size & time with infinitely much spacetime (nothing) and infinitely much existence/energymass, and all of it contains distinction-antidistinction-opposition”.
How do we know that not something was left out? Let´s draw a size-time-diagram in which every coordinate is a location of energymasspacetime (a part of Reality) with infinity-symbols symbolizing infinite size and infinite time. Every object has some coordinate on this diagram and thus ever thing gets is explanation from this diagram.
All of this – three distinct starting points to paths which merge, the philosophy arising from and which is based on E=mc
2
, three sub-ideas that can´t be further summarized to the existential theory – all this makes for a very 21
st
century theory which´s unintuitiveness (rebellion against evolved logic´s norms) is the reason for why it wasn´t discovered until now. It will likely resemble a mental mess unless you rehearse it and subdue the pitfalls of evolved logic (like “opposites can´t both be true” or “the invisible is false”) using thorough argument.
All previous existential theories start from a single idea (like “God created…” or “the earth arose from an egg”) while my theory rests on three ideas and the curriculum teaching it has three starting points/paths.
The idea (existential theory), though, is true and is universal. It explains how, when the universe becomes nothing again (as it is observed to be becoming), path B shows that nothingness mentions existence and it would break laws of nature (would be absurd) if existene never came to be in a framework that mentions it in E=mc
2
. This coincides with the merging of paths A & C which state that the time-axis (Reality=energymasspace
time
) is infinite) is infinite. The conclusion being that there has been and will be infinitely many Big Bangs (which I´ll get a Nobel prize for discovering).
In this book I’ve explained that God (being a synonym for Reality) is an “infinite size-time-diagram of energymasspacetime at every coordinate and distinction-antidistinction-opposition”. It is a full-fledged theory of what constitutes Reality. Having understood this text makes it impossible to believe in a revelation-giving God that picks sides in wars like Trump’s God or ISIS’ God.<
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen, Sweden
The First Universal Text
Advancing civilzation to end religious conflict
To help & show solidarity toward soldiers...
They´re fighting religious wars where the assumption of a small minority calling themselves muslims is that God created earth & gave a violent revalation to prophet Muhammed...
If another theory is proposed to explain why Reality was created & how/why humans came to exist, then the violent revalation & holy war end.
The course which teaches this must be as a universal curriculum designed to maximally convince. It appeals both of the motivations of helping soldiers and to learning for learning’s sake (being an intellectual).
It has two starting points:
certain truth (agreement on that we think & we exist)
Nothing (which “doesn’t exist” or exists a-priori (without previous further necessary explanation)).
The fastest way to help soldiers using a universal all-convincing course is like listening to rap music: I’ll connect concepts in a sequence so fast you’ll:
miss alot the first time you isten
listen to it multiple times to catch something new every time
see that I use different ways to present the same set of concept
There are three groups of people:
the intellectuals whom learn for learning’s sake
those who take the moral argument of having solidarity with soldiers (that it’s more moral to drive a car after a bottle of vodka than to not save soldiers’ lives by teaching a course)
those who have to be schooled by an authority.
Have you asked something about:
what God is?
I can tell you everything about God.
First of all: there are two intellectual traditions: the unbound creativity of romanticism & cold rationality. If I were writing in the romantical tradition I would spend effort writing beautiful confusing metaphors and sagas – the opposite of which is like PowerPoint bulletpoints with facts & concepts about God. This is about seeking truth in the rational manner – analysis (thought-through argument) over spontaneous gambling.
I try to create a true argument that can be pumped out of propaganda-loud speakers at ISIS, Boko Haram, Al-Shabaan, Al-Qaida, the taliban etc.
If I can tell enough rationality about their God then their fighting-morality, group-loyalty, mission and cohesion disintegrates.
What I produce is kind of as learning-intensive as the theory of relativity, but if put on loud-speakers on the religious wars’ front-lines is more powerful than any cannon.
My canon that outperforms any cannon is a theory/understanding that can be taught in limitlessly many ways – I might have 5000 concepts and you can talk them in any sequence which gives X many courses that teach my theory/science/world-view.
Instead of teaching the science in a random order, can we derive from logic some starting points for the course (making the curriculum scientific/universal)? Yes – 2 starting points akin to that it is scientific/universal to teach history chronologically.
The two starting points are Nothingness and “I think & I am”.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
The first order of business is defining the starting points along the “Nothingness”-path & the “I think & I am” path.
Everyone spontaneously believes that he/she exists & that he/she thinks thoughts, but a man
figured this out
in the 1600s. He asked: “what in an allmighty demon would be fooling me in everything I can be fooled at/in?” What remains? Allmighty fooler on a mission to fool completely in everything.
He figured out “I exist” because there is a self necessary for a/that self to be fooled.
As a distinct line of reasoning he figured out that “being fooled is [thinking/a thought-process]”, in other words that thought exists as certainly as the self.
That is the starting point on the “I think & I exist”-path.
The starting point on the Nothingness-path is a starting point because no prior reason/justification is possible/necessary. What doesn’t exist need not be explained.
It is said that when the concept 0 was invented the ancients got afraid of it because out [energymass neurons]/brain cannot properly represent something emptier than neurons/brain. Nothingness is
emptier than we see it as because we are made of and are using somethingness to represent/see/talk about Nothingness.
The next conclusion – the next step on a logical progression – along the ”I think & I am”-path is that there is distinction. There is distinction between thinker and thought. We listed two conclusions – right? – I think AND I exist. Distinction is the separation between thinker & thought. Distinction exists and is a legitimate word.
The conclusion following along the Nothingness-path is that there are laws of nature i.e. Nothingness is non-absurd. As an example: Nothingness would be absurd i.e. it is not true that a thing is not itself i.e. that 1 is not 1 . It’s not like 1=2 now, but now 1=3, and now 1=254. Laws of nature such as 1=1 are stable over time and do not change. Another law of nature that makes the universe non-absurd is that a triangle is not a sphere (geometric truths). Another law of nature, necessary for a rational cosmos, is E=mc
2
.
The next step along the “think & I am”-path is that the distinction exists in something (or nothing). There is one “that of which all is part”, called anti-distinction, in which distinction exists. Reality is one.
The next step along the “Nothingness - E=mc
2
”-path is that there is a law of nature that states, in order for the universe to be non-absurd, that: “if something, say E=m, is mentioned then it must also [exist/be summoned]”. It would be absurd for Nothingness to state “E=mc
2
” forever without E=m (energymass) ever existing.
Footnote: E=mc
2
– the summoning of energymass – is summoned in the smallest spaces simultaneously resulting in a
dense
Big Bang.
Sub-footnote: I drop Nobel prizes like they were growing on trees: the rationale for how to get from Nothingness to Something and the prediction that the Big Bang should be dense is valuable knowledge.
The next step along the “I think & I am”-path is that observation/representation is distinction. This is a repetition of the step where we said “distinction is a legitimate word i.e. there are
both
thinker AND thought”. We, as observers/representers, are in the distinction-realm – as opposed to the anti-distinction-realm – when we observe/represent/always. This means that we, due to distinction – anti-distinction – opposition, do not see [“that of which all is part”/Reality].
The next step in the Nothingness-path is that there is not just one size. There is a range of sizes – each with energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
) – large to small / small to large. Size & time are connected as spacetime. Everything/anything we know about has a size and a time.
The next step along the I think & I am –path is that, since we do not see Reality (that of which all is part) there is more to Reality than can be [known/distinctly made sense of/hypothesized]. Based on the conclusion that everything has a size & time, there must be more sizes & times than can be hypothesized.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
I switch between the two in a universal way.
I can’t do more universal than tasking the two starts of a universal course and intertwining the logical steps step by step.
I would like to show you two synonymous diagrams. The difference between them is in how time is represented. The difference is the same as between a rolled-out video-tape and a TV.
Imagine ten TV screens stacked in a column. Imagine that the topmost TV shows the largest size, the lowestmost TV shows the smallest size and there is a continuum of TVs/sizes between them.
The other synonymous diagram has size on the vertical axis, time on the horizontal axis and every coordinate represents all of the following:
- a size-time (every object has a size and a time)
- a sub-field of science
- a piece of energymasspacetime.
So far we’ve looked at three different concepts – the self, spacetime and anti-distinction – which, if you see them, look the same. The self can’t be seen because one is it, spacetime can’t be seen because it’s emptier than neurons can represent it as, and all of Reality (anti-distinction) can’t be seen because representation is distinction.
These three concepts are inter-connected, though: the self exists as neurons in spacetime, the self and spacetime exist in Reality. Reality is defined as all of energymasspacetime and the self exists as a location within a size-time.
Three unseeable concepts with connections between them.
The phrase “God created earth” is parallelled/rivalled by the phrase “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime and distinction-anti-distinction-opposition”. Both claim to be the explanation to why we exist.
The validity of an existential theory (a theory for why there is existence) is tested by whether it can predict a DNA-strand (and thus the evolution up to humans). If a theory predicts that there ought to be a DNA-strand (at some coordinate in the infinite size-time-diagram) the theory has the scientific predictive quality that a theory needs.
Again, keeping with the universal tradition of this text, just like with the “I think & I am” & “Nothingness” dual paths that I intertwined, the continuation of this book will be written as it is written by others aiming at writing something that can be derived from science (empty space in front of oneself) no matter where in our infinite universe one is located.
The two paths that we meet now are that “the ancients wrote about God/Reality” (how to make
religion make sense in a modern context) and “the existential theory”.
If you want to make the ancients’ concepts God and Soul make sense, God is just a synonym for Reality. I tend to ask religious people:
Is God:
a part within “that of which all is part”/Reality,
a synonym for “that of which all is part”/Reality, or
“beyond”/”outside” Reality (which doesn’t have an outside; anything “outside” is unreal)?
Obviously God has to stay real (there is no spacetime for Him to be located in “outside” energymasspacetime, and I put “outside” in quotes because energymasspacetime has no outside), and God cannot be smaller than (a part of) “that of which all is part”. Allah akbar / God is all-encompassing means there is nothing greater than Him, which is true about the word Reality (energymasspacetime / “that of which all is part”). We already said that “that of which all is part cannot be observed/represented” (meaning there is more to it than infinitely much hypothesizing/representing) and this is said about God too. We also know that Reality is one (not 2 or 0.75) and this is the meaning of the word monotheism. The three things we know about God/Reality – that it is one, that one cannot see it and that there’s nothing greater – are too many for the Reality-God-connection (as synonyms) to be coincidence. The ancients had access to the speculation about how we as selves are distinct and therefore Reality (the most all-encompassing), due to it being anti-distinction, is unobservable. God comes as infinite (1) size-time-axises of (2) energymasspacetime and (3) distinction-anti-distinction-opposition, because this three-idea theory predicts the dawn of a DNA-strand.
“That the self can’t be seen because one is it” is an analysis the ancients would’ve had access to too using their civilized survey of what is true about the unavoidable observer in every observation. This makes science warrant and want the word “soul” as a synonym for the “thinker” we looked at in “thinker & thought exist”.
This should’ve answered the question: “which parts of religion make sense in a modern context?”. God and Soul are useful concepts – and we know much more about both thanks to science than the ancients did. It shouldn’t come as a surprize that the scientific lense’s minimalistic interpretation of religion makes a lot of ritual and dogma unscientific i.e. not universal. I couldn’t possibly add any ritual to this book’s curriculum except that the size-time-diagram is a square so tattoo parlors should see a spike in people wanting that universal diagram tattooed on themselves, along with a triangle (with its tip originating from the center size/center of the square) representing evolution’s increasing complexity/fine-tuning and size of the DNA. It’s a 3D diagram – the square and the triangle being in two different dimensions.
Notice the square (size-time-diagram) and the triangle (evolution) which together are the existential theory, if you remember that E=mc
2
gave us that it is energymasspacetime and the opposition between distinction and anti-distinction. No matter your location in this infinite space (space of the human size is infinite because the size-range is infinite) you’d arrive at the same picture and text.
Wearing this on t-shirts is as universal of a ritual as we will get.
Let’s break down the existential theory’s (God’s) three ideas:
an infinite size-range (with infinite time because size and time are connected as spacetime). Take your body’s size as an example – it is because of the size larger than itself and the sizes smaller than itself. Sizes are because of one another. If the size-range is infinite then this gives infinitely many reasons for any size existing, in other words “the first cause” it retreating infinitely far into the small and large. This explains why a size-range such as our known range exists at all. This is pillar one of the three-pillar existential theory.
of energymasspacetime. Spacetime is emptier than our neurons can represent it as and human endevours are for evolutionary reasons meant to deal with energymass (existence). E=mc
2
is the equation where energymass is mentioned in the E=m-part and the speed of light squared (speed is space (distance) over time) mentions spacetime – in the same equation; they’re connected. This is a pillar of the existential theory because it explains why there can be something (at every size): it is intertwined (and exists in) Nothingness. In Nothing, Something.
distinction-anti-distinction-opposition i.e. the opposition between distinction (like separate observers) and anti-distinction (defined as “that one of which all is part”). We started this book with two paths: “I think & I am” (and distinction between them) and Nothingness (which is intertwined with Somethingness/energymass). Both are correct conclusions eventhough we need “both-and -thinking” to deal with the facts that Reality is both one and has distinction in it.
This three-pillared/three-idea existential theory rivals “God created the universe” and predicts that the Big Bang ought to begin as dense (because E=mc
2
is true in the smallest spaces) and end in dark energy/accelarating cosmis expansion i.e. that the universe becomes emptier until a region of Nothingness appears again – the universe hates a vacuum and since E=mc
2
is true in that vacuum, the vacuum cannot remain empty. This three-pillared theory predicts the dense beginning of the universe and the empty end of the universe – both the dense beginning and emptying future can be observed with telescopes. The theory also predicts, since it has an infinite size-range, that there should be a DNA-strand and thus evolution.
God thus can only remain as three possibilities:
God is a synonym for Reality (and thanks to this book, we know the three-pillared theory which goes into detail about God); God is “that of which all is part”, energymasspacetime.
God is an unnecessary assumption – the word God can be dropped out of our vocabularies because the theory works fine stand-alone. We don’t need a synonym for Reality since we do have the word Reality already, so we deny God because it comes with so much superstitious baggage.
God is added - just like Santa Claus, elfs, fairies and unicorns can be added – to the theory eventhough it doesn’t make sense to add it. There is no spacetime “outside” energymasspacetime and hence to place for a God to be; God cannot be separate/distinct from Reality without being unreal.
This book, by being universally written:
proves that space is infinite (because there is infinitely large) and thus other planets with human life should write the exact same book,
presents a universal idea in a near-universal way (distinction between the curriculum and the science itself),
advanced civilization / is the pinnacle of human civilization when it comes to the big questions like God, Soul and the existential theory,
can cause skisms within religious war-groups i.e. end war for religious reasons,
is a propaganda-weapon to be put on loud-speakers on the current wars’ front-lines.
I thought it fitting, to keep the curriculum universal, to add “what this book can do for humanity” right after the chapter about the existential theory. The next chapter will deal with evolution (beginning from a DNA-strand).
Theres a universal course/book thats on every advanced enough planet throughout the universe and at the regeneration of every universe. If you consider the entire corpus of human knowledge, youd find 3 rational starting points: certain truth, nothingness and that reality is one. Just like dinosaurs predate humans the first chapter with the 3 starting points predate the connecting of "I
think
and I
exist, distinction" and "reality is one, antidistinction." Which leads to that there is more to reality than can be contemplated meaning that its infinite. That’s chaper 2: like multiplication and division are much higher
levels of mathematics than adding and subtracting, chaper 2 is higher than the starting points in chapter 1.
This book was about religions arising from thinking about distinction (there is thinker AND thought) and that there is anti-distinction (Reality is one; E=mc^2 means energymasspacetime), and we are in distinction's realm when we observe/see (representation is distinction). The opposition between distinction and antidistinction (that we can't see reality as a whole) means the size and time axises on a diagram are infinite. Everything happens because it has a reason in the larger, the smaller and in time. The falsity of religions is that this anti-distinction One Reality doesn't write holy books because it's just an infinite size-time-diagram of energymasspacetime and distinction&antidistinction - it's not in such a thing's nature to write a Quran.﻿
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen, Sweden
New Microsoft Word Document (2)
Author
yonis
Posted on
21/03/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Humanisterna
Collection 15 3 2017
collection 15 3 2017
1
Plato and Socrates were resurreced to have a conversation in the 21st century.
Plato: What´s the state of the world? Everything we do emits carbon and those emissions will raise the sea-levels to unbearable heights.
Socrates: What´s unbearable?
Plato: Many people will have to move and there´s no spare space to move to. They´ll be refugees fleeing from water.
God joined the conversation: But that´s 60 years into the future.
Plato: Another "state of the world"-thing is that oil is a limited resource and we´ll run out of if.
Socrates: But that´s also a century in the future - before that oil prices will rise causing increasing poverty.
Plato: So we´re at the pinnacle of the world regarding these two points: it´s like we´ve climbed a mountain and there´s never been and will never be as good a time as there is already and that there´ll be the coming century. But we´ve got millions of years left on the planet - how do we make the inevitable decline of global wealth more bearable, less destructive? The fall is coming - how do we dampen the blow? From the top of the mountain there´s only downhill to go.
God: I evolved you into a group-dwelling species and you form groups around nationhood, around language, around favorite football teams... Pretty much everything seems to be able to bind you humans together - which is another way of saying that you are bound apart from another group of anoter nation/language/football team. You, as seen throughout history and is seen today, find power in numbers and...
Plato: We fight wars - we fight them as groups, meaning something binds us together. The more serious the binding force the more outrageous the war. The larger the number of people that identify as some group the more war morale and power in numbers they experience.
Socrates: How do we, preparing for the coming downhill collapse of global wealth, make groups as tiny and the least bound together as possible? There are countless groups in the world - what could impact them all so that their bonds become more arbitrary to them?
Plato: Nationhood is already a terrible binder because everyone knows that it´s a human invention. Race was a big deal in Hitler´s era but the past 70 years has tought us that there is excellence in every race and travel/cosmopolitan cities has shown us that race - which is most notable in skin color - is a primitive and weak binder. Plus it´s unchangeable: if future wars are fought based on racial bonds - which sounds ridicilous - there´s nothing we can do to prevent people from grouping according to skin-color. If you want to fight a war you must have something more significant than race to dehumanize the other group, and it´s no longer possible to dehumanize based on racial differences because we´ve met people of every race and seen that the difference caused by race is too small to warrant dehumanization and war.
God: If race or nation were your strongest binders, they´d be as weak as can be and that´s good for the future wealth-collapse. You should want weak binders that people are indifferent to - that prevents large-scale wars.
Plato: The context that we´re in is of a coming decline of wealth - the sooner the better, actually, because every moment that passes releases more carbon dioxide and burns more oil. If we could all become as civilized as can be, which means to have group-bonds that won´t lead to large-scale war when the economy turns down, then we´d be as prepared as can be for the future downturn.
Socrates: What were the causes for the latest wars - the Afghanistan and Iraq/Syria wars - to escalate into as big as they were?
Plato: Hussein in Iraq wasn´t a civilized man - he did not follow the maxim "know thyself". He had group bonds that made him want to enrich his people (over other people) based on a cult of personality.
God: He basically didn´t know himself in regards to that power-hungryness/ambition is infinite - he acted out of greed and out of a group-bond to the Iraqi people: he wasn´t a global citizen nor educated to know himself. He annexed a United Nations member, ridiculing the United Nations - setting a dangerous president which basically would´ve made a new international rule that says "you can annex your neighbours and no international entity will stop you". Other nations seeing Hussein succeed might have done the same thing - causing a global set of "eat your weaker neighbour"-wars. And if he or his successor would have, in the coming 50 years, developed a nuclear bomb then the United Nations couldn´t have stopped his expansionist plans but would´ve had to agree to let him take whatever he wants. And like said: he wanted infinitely much because he didn´t understand his greed, and he was group-bound to a set of people instead of to everyone.
Plato: So if civilizing TV-programs or books would´ve reached out to Hussein, making him not group-bind as strongly as he did, he wouldn´t have killed others to enrich (what he thought was) his group. Celebrity and power (from his cult of personality-style state) got to his head. If he would´ve been more of a thinking person instead of reacting like an animal to the celebrity (and wanting to "give back to his fans") he wouldn´t have been such an issue in the eyes of The World Police. The aftermath of the Iraq war was religiously bound groups.
Socrates: What about the Afghanistan war?
Plato: Afghanistan was harboring terrorists - the leaders there too felt power from the celebrity/cult of personality and you don´t need many people praising you to get that vibe of "we´re strong". Why did they harbor terrorists? Religious bonds and the fact that any billion-dollar army looks impressive, triggering the emotion "we´re strong", no matter how insignificant in comparison to USA´s army. Again a civilizing mission to that part of the world to educate people about themselves would´ve helped: to educate about the evolved emotional repertoire and how it gets triggered into feeling "we´re too strong to mess with" from basically anything modern. Plus their faith in the Quran - that God is on any Quran-reader´s side rather than the Christians´/Atheists´ side.
God: So your latest wars were basically a combination of uneducated people who didn´t have a clue about what evolution made the emotional repertoire into, and the derivatives of that such as that seeing 500 armed men gives the illusion of incomprehendable might no matter how trivial that army is compared to USA´s. Non-understanding of the emotional repertoire and what it is used to i.e. what it has been triggered by during millions of years. And a strong group-binding force specifically about me, God.
Plato: And this will not end until humanity combines its best information with its mass-communication media in a sufficient way to civilize everyone, and until the God-debate is finally settled. A little "know thyself"-civilizing education and an argument that completes the theory of God.
God: So if you don´t have a civilizing/educating mission through your TV-screens nor finish your knowledge about Me, the recent wars in Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan is what the future wars due to decline of the oil reservoirs and the sea-level rise will resemble.
Plato: Religion is the strongest changeable binding force - it makes wars become the scale of nations instead of local turf gang wars. If the world is impoverishing due to global warming and peak oil, religion is the factor that decides whether group-bonds i.e. armies are scaled as large as nations or the size of families.
God: Indeed - your various claims about me is what decides whether you´ll have a World War 3 clash of civilizations with collapsed nations adhering to what they call God´s law (like sharia), but if you get rid of all the false claims in religion then the inevitable coming decline will be bearably stable because the biggest army you can gather is not gathered with soldiers swearing oaths on holy books. The context is that of a coming decline but it is the debate about God that decides whether it´ll be with gargantuan strong group-bonds like those caused by religion, or more rational group bonds based on nation or cooperation over material goals.
Socrates: What if, in the aftermath of the Iraq war against Hussein, there wouldn´t have been religion (or at least multiple different religions)? Would the men that now made up ISIS have been able to organize and bind together into big groups? They had the idea that no modern nation resembles the kaliphate that the Quran demands - so without the Quran: would they have had an ideology/mission that they would´ve fought to accomplish? The Quran gave them both a "holy"/super-human group-bond based on a holy book which twists the reader´s prioritizes into accomplishing the holy mission of setting up sharia law in a kaliphate (and expanding that islam as much as possible i.e. world-domination). It´s impossible to imagine world events going as bad at they did - with large cities laid to ruin - without the debate about God being ongoing. If the debate had been finished it´s impossible to imagine the latest wars.
Plato: As long as the God-debate is unfinished, there´ll be holy-book-based group-bonds (meaning large numbers of people acting as one). Right now the secular armies of the world are keeping wars like this from erupting by military means, but that´s obviously not the best solution for the problems caused by
the God-debate and its bonding abilities. Going forward, into the inevitable decline of increasing global poverty, its best to read about and keep up to date on the God-debate, adding to it if possible.
Socrates: Wasn´t Libya in a choice between western values and islamic values, with around 50% of the population on one side and 50% on the other, and because of the lack of a solution to the God-debate the idea "God want´s sharia law" was in the top ten causes for why the country destabilized? The debate could just as well have been between promiscuity vs. marriage, but because the God-debate isn´t settled one of the major forces that plunged the country into chaos was the belief that God had written the Quran. If it could´ve been proven that God definitely didn´t write the Quran, the civil war would´ve been less heated.
God: Future wars, the ones that inevitably will erupt from economic decline due to unpreventable forces like global warming or peak oil, can either be large-scale ones like those of the recent past or just crime and civil unrest like seen in many "stable" countries that don´t make the news because there´s no large-scale armed grouping. Large-scale and religion are like the two sides of a coin - they´re a pair. Bonding causes larger chaos and religion causes bonding. Whether you´ll have major wars or just civil unrest once the economic decline comes and is impossible to roll back depends on how well you handle the God-debate. The God-debate is the most major debate/military issue you can have in this pre-collapse era. If this debate is not held within a limited time-frame, you will have large-scale group-bonding based on religion and those wars will be too grand for letting the mind debate the abstract science that is the God-debate. In this era of relative calmness before the storm, the most important issue for you to debate is the big question: what is God? It´ll save millions of lives - as it would have if it had been completely debated before the Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan wars. The outcome won´t be that humans morph into angels - we´ll still have deaths during the coming and forever lasting impoverishment of humanity, but the chaos can be reduced thousand-fold if humanity accomplishes to civilize itself by using its mind to completely comprehend those major questions that make "religion" and "religious wars" into existing phenomena. And the time for engaging the God-debate it limited: once religious bonding makes things heat up into large scale conflict due to "us vs. them" group loyalties in a world in decline, it´ll be much harder to get a message - an abstract scientific one - across.
Chapter 2: Revelations
Darwin was resurrected and summoned to the conversation.
Darwin: Humans have always like revelations.
Socrates: What do you mean by "liked revelations"?
Darwin: There are eras of revelations. At the dawn of ape-man some warlord must have figured out that it boost fighting morale to have every commandment be divine rather than a choice by man. This warranted a priest or a priest-king who led the war as a commander. Those tribes who had mere men (and proclaimed that mere men made decisions) would´ve had a lower fighting morale than the tribe with divine revelation-commands in war. It was a simple con-artist tactic for the commander to say that his commands came from a divine source - and many propably saw through the scam - but even if it boosted morale just a little bit (and terrified the enemy tribe just a little bit in those superstitious early ape-man days) it was an evolutionary advantage. Soon all tribes adopted the same tactic because it gave evolutionary benefits in tribal wars. Another parallell theory which doesn´t contradict the first one is that parents wanted to raise their kids in as safe a mindset as possible, and thus invented that some invisible deity was the cause of earthquakes, disease, etc and should be worshipped. Or perhaps someone worshipped his ancestors and when asked "why?" he invented that they were divine - both to get more respect to himself and to have the other tribe-members worship those parents. A tool of war in the first theory, an explanation to everything mysterious (rather have an earthquake be a divine will than to have no theory about it whatsoever) or the want for celebrity and respect in the third theory. Gods are simply bound to exist at the dawn of language. People have always liked revelations. A very good book can be written by a totally unknown author or the same book can be written by the most famous author - it´s more likely to be considered worthier a book if it´s written by someone who already has celebrity and respect. The same goes for revelations: a revelation is something which´s author has celebrity and respect, making the revelation "seem better"/sell more. That´s why ad campaigns for cars or perfumes rent as respected of a person as is possible to advertise it. A revelation is to have a statement get respect because it was given by something super-human (a divinity). Something super-human (in eras where such superstitions were not scoffed at) as the author of some statement made more people buy into that statement - we respect (or respected when those things were still believed in) the super-human/divine and we respect their statements/revelations.
Plato: Then there´s another kind of revelation that got respect. Descartes who lived in the 1600s got respect, fame and was invited to live with the Queen of Sweden because he had gotten an idea which certainly told us something true. Revelations can either be con men´s statements like they were from ape-man and forward, or they can actually claim something which is verifyably true. Descartes, propably
having his mind overcrowded by the masses of revelations that had accumulated to his time, asked: "what would be true if all my statements were false?". What would remain if I tossed all my knowledge and ideas into the trash? Are we stuck with countless unverifyable statements, some contradicting eachother, not knowing which ones are true and which ones are not? Obviously not since statements about architecture are obviously true since they build houses, while contradictory statements do not. So Descartes dared to throw all his knowledge in the trash to see what remained. He found certain truth: that he exists - because even if he was wrong or was being fooled in everything he thought to be true, there´d still be a "he" there. He certainly exists no matter what. Same thing goes for thoughts: being wrong or being fooled is a thinking-process so even if he was wrong or was being fooled in everything he thought, there´d still be thought.
Socrates: So he figured out that he thinks and he exists.
God: These are not one statement - they are two.
Socrates: What does that mean?
God: I´ll tell you later - just agree with me that there is distinction between thinker and thought - that the statements are two. It´s building on certain truth, and it´s possible to build a whole... whatever it is that "saves the world" from the coming economic decline by having everyone build on certain truth until the God-debate is settled. Remembering "distinction" (between thinker and thought) will prevent the horror-scenario of large-scale future wars between people group-bound by religions, and instead - since everyone built a whole world-view on certain truth - have a more stable decline in the future. "Distinction" i.e. remembering that there are two certain truths (thinker and thought) is a step on the way toward a plan that will save humanity from destroying itself as much as it would if we didn´t build our world-views on certain truth.
Plato: So after an era of "revelation"-revelations invented by anyone for whatever purpose, coming from Darwin´s ape-man´s revelations, Descartes, in the 1600s, invented a revelation - certain truth: I think and I exist - which got him invited to the Queen of Sweden for the rest of his life. People have always liked revelations and even verifyable truth-claims like Descartes´ get respect.
God: I have set it as true that each one of you humans can verify in your own mind´s eye that you do certainly exist and that there certainly is thought - and thus there is distinction.
Darwin: Distinction is an abstract word. That two objects are separate/different from one another is one of those notions and ape-man never made into language - there was never the evolutionary need to talk about "distinction". Yes: one could say that one banana is different from another (and one wants the bigger one), but to have Distinction exist stand-alone as a distinct notion is abstract thinking and we are not evolved to do that. For millions of years the caveman word for "distinction" was only used in a sentance - not stand-alone as in "distinction certainly exists because thinker and thought are both certain truths".
Plato: This is one of those pitfalls of the mind - biases if you will - that repell some and attract others. Curiosity is the key for wiring one´s brain...
God: As I would like to have it wired. I am not so much for your evolved thinking - to comprehend me you have to think abstractly. However weird it feels, if you want true revelation - like the one you got from Descartes - you need curiosity (an eagerness for truth) to overcome various pitfalls of the mind / biases like the one where certain words should be used in a context (to differentiate one banana as distinct from another) - God wants you to, in order to prevent future large-scale wars, understand abstract truths like saying "distinction certainly exists and was concluded based on Descartes´ I think and I am -certain truth". True revelations include abstractness.
Plato: Which is why Descartes got invited to the Queen of Sweden.
Socrates: Philosophy gives one revelation if revelation is defined as truth.
God: People have always liked God´s truth, whether it be ape-man´s false "truths" or Descartes´ certain truth.
Socrates: Isn´t "distinction" a wide concept used on even atoms being distinct from one another? My chair is distinct from my pillow which is distinct from my thinker and thought.
God: Indeed - the chinese called "distinction" "the ten thousand things" because 10 000 is about as many items as the mind can comprehend visually.
Darwin: The human brain evolved its size so much so that it can imagine 10 000 soldiers, but like Stalin said: one death is a tragedy, a million deaths is just a statistic. The chinese meant the abstraction "distinction" when they said "the ten thousand things" - they were speaking metaphorically of the very notion of distinction. They didn´t literally count 10 000 something - in their philosophy they called the entire world "the ten thousand things" which simply means that distinction exists. The chinese and Descartes proved the same point: it is God´s word that distinction is a legitimate concept in a world that is one as a whole.
Socrates: Is there an opposition between Reality being one (you´ve never heard anyone say "two Realities") and there being multiple things (distinction)? The definition of Reality is that all things are part of it; the external world comes as a singular.
Plato: It is certainly possible to, in the mind´s eye, uphold the notion of a single Reality of which everything is part. Even the word "everything" is a single word referring to all distinct items/notions at once.
God: That of which all is part is one.
Darwin: This is again a pitfall of the mind: we evolved to consider events, memories and stories as that either, for example, that person was there or he was some other place - but he was not here and there at the same time. We evolved to rearrange matter for evolutionary benefits and never were we confronted with a scenario where two opposite scenarios were simultaneously true. An item was either here or there - not both places at once. Either a death had occurred or it hadn´t - not both cases simultaneously. Even in caveman days did we have a word for "the world" (like in the sentence: "the world is full of items") - a single word to refer to all things at once.
God: And I did indeed make One Reality - not two or three, nor half of one. It can be counted: 1.
Darwin: So while the caveman days had words like "distinction" and "reality"...
Plato: And Reality can be defined as anti-distinction because it is a single word referring to a single Creation.
God: And in religious speech you have never heard priests say "God created Creations" with "creations" as plural.
Darwin: Cavemen used both the all-encompassing everything-containing notion "Reality"/"The world" in sentences like "it´s ONE nasty world" and they used the distinction-notion in sentectes like "the two bananas are distinct", but it wasn´t until the past maybe 5000 years that both notions were taken out of contexts, analyzed independently and realized to be the opposites of one another. This is a pitfall of the mind, it took hundreds of thousands of years of using the words in contexts before someone took them out of contexts and opposed them to one another. We didn´t evolve to handle two true scenarios/cases simultaneously (but we did evolve to think of everything as scenarios/cases, which is why abstract thinking is so new).
Plato: There are many ways to say that there is both distinction and anti-distinction. One can use synonyms to them like separation vs. Reality; many vs. One. But "that of which all is part" - the most all-encompassing, One Reality, should always be capitalized when writing it because it is the only thing worth worshipping.
God: Am I it or am I part of it?
Plato: You are a synonym to it because no monotheism considers God a part of something larger; if God were a part of something larger than that larger should be the One which worship is directed toward. If one worships Reality then one worships something greater than God, if God is a part within a larger whole.
Socrates: Imagine two groups of worshippers and assume God is part of a larger whole called Reality (which is one because it is defined as "that of which all is part"): which group worships the greater? Which group worships God plus something more? God must be a synonym for Reality.
Plato: God is one - Reality is one. God is all-encompassing/"akbar" - Reality is all-encompassing/"akbar".
Darwin: Eventhough we´ve now taken both distinction out of any "natural" context and defined Reality as one, we´re still not at the peak of complexity regarding how non-ape-like our thinking can get. If we pit the two notions we´re talking about against eachother, we´d call them distinction and anti-distinction (one is anti-distinction), and our evolved mind goes bananas when two opposites are true. But what´s more is that distinction happens in Reality; distinction happens in anti-distinction. The single One is divided up into many distinct pieces - but yet there is all the time only One (Reality is always a valid concept). So one of our two notions is not only the opposite of the other, it exists within or is the property of the other. Distinctiveness is the property that a single Reality upholds. As a student of evolution, thinking about the scenarios that never happened in the natural world, there never was a putting of two opposites within one another, both being abstract and out of any natural context like Reality and distinction are. We evolved to think in terms of stories, memories and scenarios - not in terms of opposites containing eachother both being abstract. Not only was our toolkit (our mind) not made for this job: it has an explicit bias and avoidance of having two true opposites (especially when they´re made of one another).
Socrates: Is this just a mental game to build a mental sculpture without conclusion?
God: No - it is revelation; you don´t like it because you evolved. It´s built on certain truth and it´s gotten quite complex: this revelation has expanded. But there is a punchline: you cannot see God. As Descartes said: you are distinct and thus opposites to Me because I am anti-distinction. You know for certain that you think - and when you think of me you are not entering anti-separation: you are just holding a distinct notion in front of you which is supposed to be anti-separation/Reality/God.
Plato: This is the dawn of monotheisms. Someone realized that by being distinct, as Descartes proved for each one of us that we are - observation is separation - we cannot see anti-distinction.
Darwin: Here too is a pitfall of the mind. The very sentence "I cannot see X" when talking about X as things the mind can summon in the mind´s eye, sounds like a contradiction to evolved ears. If you said X/Reality/anti-distinction then you assume that you are beholding it in your mind´s eye. But you are not! Separation is inherent in the very act of beholding something in the mind´s eye and we are trying to behold the opposite of separation. Does it get more complex than this? We built the sculpture - and it is all revelation because it goes step-by-step from certain truth - and now we can conclude that we, as distinct entities (observation is distinction) cannot see our finest, most recent conclusion even in the mind´s eye: we can´t see Reality.
Plato: Ah, that reminds me of my cave metaphor. I realized, about 2000 years ago when I was still alive, that our setting of words to things, our learned properties of tools, our differing opinions, our contradicting histories of things like who won a fight - all prove that our mental maps are not equal to the external "territory". It´s like we´re chained to the wall of a cave and our vision sees only the shadows in the sunlight against the wall of the cave - we don´t see out the entrence of the cave, we only see the shadows. This realization that our mental representations of things are not the things themselves - that senses are distorting middlemen and so is the mind too - can be phrased as "the map is not the territory".
God: No! The "distinction to anti-distinction opposition" that we built up to from certain truth and led us to the conclusion that as distinct entities/thinkers/observers we do not see "that of which all is part"/Reality/God/anti-distinction, is not your 2000 year old conclusion about "the map is not the territory". Plato, your discovery that you told through your cave-metaphor has been significant and repeated until the modern age, and will always be taught to children - it was a great discovery, but it´s not the birth of monotheism: it´s not the distinction vs. anti-distinction "we cannot see Reality"-thesis.
Plato: I know, the two just remind me of one another.
Darwin: The difference between them is that you don´t get monotheism out of knowing that your mental map is not "the territory". Plato said, 2000 years ago through his cave metaphor, that "we interpret things". It is a pitfall of the mind to not see this notion, but it makes perfect sense since we work (maximize evolutionary benefits) faster by our brains being wired to disregard that we work on interpretations of the world. In fact: it would´ve been a cumbersome non-benefitial mutation to have the brain, as it works, to always be reminded of that it is working on the world through a middleman i.e. it is interpreting. Why would we have evolved the knowledge that we´re interpreting instead of acting without middleman? Such things had to be invented and Plato was the first to have invented it 2000 years ago. We´re not born with that knowledge, it´s taught from generation to the next. Every animal just acts and no animal, except humans when they´re taught Platos discovery, has gotten evolutionary benefits from acknowledging Plato´s cave metaphor i.e. "the map is not the territory" i.e. there is a middleman (senses, interpretations, mental maps, knowledge).
God: But all of this is off-topic to the discussion you were having about not seeing Me. You have to distinguish between what we can call "distinction-antidistinction-opposition" which is the sculpture we built logic-by-logic from certain truth, and Plato´s "the map is not the territory"-statement about the middleman. Having a middleman to our, for evolutionary reasons assumed to be direct contact with the
world, is not the birthplace of monotheism. Talking about why One anti-distinct Reality - the only thing worth worshipping because it contains everything - cannot be seen because we are, as Descartes said, distinct (and thus opposite to anti-distinction), is the birthplace of monotheism. We left off, on our sculpture, at "distinction cannot see Reality" and then we got reminded of Plato´s "the map is not the territory"-discovery - but the two discoveries are different because "the map is not the territory" in no way utilizes the all-encompassing anti-distinction concept nor the certain-truth distinction-concept, nor does it lead to monotheism. Plato´s discovery is just an observation, taught forward as a metaphor, about our senses and interpretations of an external world which we gain information about.
Socrates: Why did God give us two so similar but different revelations?
God: Because one is simple and the other one is complex.
Darwin: Both are evolutionary pitfalls of the mind, but Platos´ contains just one pitfall: that we didn´t evolve to acknowledge any middleman. Plato acknowledged a middleman (i.e. our interpretive nature) and that´s all there was to it. In the teaching that saves the world from group-bonding once decline occurs is based on and builds upon certain truth. In it we´ve gotten past many pitfalls - not just one like in Plato´s discovery. Plato is fully understood if one acknowledges one evolutionary pitfall - one distinction between how we, due to evolution, naturally think and how we "ought to think".
God: Ought to think means how I urge you to think - you get revelation - you find our more about me - by overcoming all pitfalls that evolution gave you. Plato´s finding gets you past one pitfall - and that´s good: you´ve found out more about me. But the reason he was the starter of philosophy and not the ender of all religious wars is because he didn´t build a sculpture made out of avoidances of pitfalls.
Socrates: I see that the story where Descartes, distinction and anti-distinction are involved is separate from Plato´s 2000 year old cave metaphor. I see the difference in complexity i.e. number of pitfalls when I compare the platonic cave-metaphor´s resemblance to that there are two equally legitimate truths - distinction and anti-distinction - and they exist atop of eachother i.e. simultaneously, but are opposites, and we humans are in one (distinction) in one way, but in anti-distinction (Reality) in another way. "We don´t see Reality" are words that slip of our tounge regarding both the platonic cave-metaphor and the... whatever it´s called: story that ends wars.
God: Logic about me; revelation confirmed by each and everyone individually and in groups; the truth rather than the conflict that causes bloodshed. Plato overcame one pitfall. In the story based on Descartes´ distinction and God being all-encompassing Reality which is one and can´t be represented we´ve gotten to the point that easily reminds humans of Plato´s cave metaphor: "I don´t see Reality/anti-distinction", but we get side-tracked if we think Plato´s cave metaphor is the same as the opposition (and simultaneous intertwinedness) between distinction and anti-distinction; between ourselves and Reality. Humans associate too easily - when two different works of logic leads to the summary of a conclusion using the same phrase, we think that the two works of logic are the same - but they´re not and that´s the pitfall.
Plato: It´s akin to two pieces of art - paintings - both containing the same image of a bird. Just because one sentence is the same doesn´t mean its meaning is the same, or that the reasons for it are the same.
Socrates: Nor are the conclusions that stem from it the same.
Darwin: Too quick associations - even though the prelude to them was different and the way in which the sentence "I don´t see Reality" is meant is different - is a pitfall. For the story that ends religious wars it´s better to not even know Plato´s cave-metaphor. There must be a clear distinction in one´s mind between the platonic "I don´t see Reality" (because of middlemen i.e. the map-territory-distinction) and the more fundamental "I don´t see Reality" which is based on that both distinction and anti-distinction are legitimate but opposite concepts.
Socrates: Let´s say we´ve unlearned Plato´s cave-metaphor: why is our "I don´t see Reality" - because of distinction and anti-distinction - "more fundamental"?
God: Because it says something more thorough-going than the shallow-penetrating platonic statement. Guess how I, God, defined "see"?
Is this going to clarify things in religion, preventing grand clashes in the future? Religion scales up war - is the coming statement going to scale down those future wars?
God: Yes. The way I defined "see" or observer or hear or smell or taste or behold in your mind´s eye or comprehend or think about some notion, is to use the word "represent" to refer to all of these. Like in
the sentence "the coffe cup represents the chair" it means that the coffee cup is a symbol - like a vision or a thought-up notion is - and it´s pointing toward the chair / it symbolizes the chair. Guess how vaguely I´ve defined "it´s pointing toward" and "it symbolizes"?
Plato: The human definition would involve humans or computers, because without humans nor computers there wouldn´t be anything capable of handeling a representation of a chair using a coffee cup. It´s subjective what represents what - humans decide what represents what at any one moment.
Socrates: Would there the coffee cup represent the chair if all humans and all computers would be removed?
God: Yes and no. Maybe. This shows how vaguely I´ve defined "represents". If you exclude humans from the game, anything can randomly and arbitrarily represent (be a pointer to and a symbol of) anything. A human life is the very representation of things as mental objects - we haven´t seen a single thing without a neuron or two being parked as the symbol that refers to whatever external we are referring to.
Socrates: Our lives are that of representations; without them we´d be nothing - we´d be spider-brains brain-wise. Our favorite task is to represent. We humans might have firm beliefs about that the word "cow" means something that can give milk, and we´re repulsed by those who use the word "cow" to mean comb. That repulsion and insiting on a word represent what society agrees it should represent is what language is built of.
Darwin: We´d fall into pitfalls of the mind all the time is we weren´t strict about what is allowed to represent what and what is not allowed to represent what. If the ideas and words in our heads suddenly started becoming representours and representees, we would´ve gone crazy: our world-view wouldn´t make sense nor would we be able to speak coherently. Human strictness about how firmly or loosely something (an idea) represents something else (a visual object), or what is not allowed to represent what, was an evolutionary necessty for complex world-views/plans to evolve.
God: But back to the topic at hand, how do I, God, define "represent" - am I strict about which clusters or matter are allowed to represent which other clusters of matter? Would I allow a tiny region of empty space - part of Reality as it is - represent all the galaxies in the cosmos simultaneously?
Plato: Why not: the strictness in human representations is an evolved trait - we don´t go around abusing the gift by letting random things represent random things; to prove this: you´ve propably never heard of particularly a coffee cup representing a chair. We evolved to represent as to create mental maps which include evolved inventions like hierarchies (king vs. slave), personalities (is he a threat to me or not?), social bonds between various people (are the three of those protect eachother?) - but we also map less alive things like the level of calmness in the country which we live in, or the grand-scale context involving God i.e. that of which all is part is the umbrella under which all other maps reside - be they geographical, social, how to use tools, plans for the future, memories of the past.
Darwin: We have clear biases in our map-making; some things interest us while other things that we could possibly represent don´t interest us. Our representations are collected through biases.
Plato: Don´t computers also represent? The location A654 on the hard-drive might point to the data stored on the other side of the drive, which when interpreted through a image-viewing program is a family photo.
Socrates: Indeed - so you could say that if computers stay working and all humans die, then there´d still be representation because one area or item is only useful when being akin to a finger pointing to the representee. But what about the cup and the chair -example? A relationship of representing was summoned between them by a human simply stating that one represents the other. We could jot it down on paper and now the paper would be the keeper and communicator of that relationship of representation. A computer is just like a piece of paper in this regard - but so is the human brain: the human brain´s representing ability seems different from that of a piece of paper´s or a computer´s because we see evolutionary benefits (we see feeling) in our representations. Representation happens so fast to us - and our feelings tell us whether the connections or chronological sequence of representations following one another is an evolutionary benefit or its opposite (to be loved or feared). Anatomically, if you opened up the brain under a microscope, you´d see neurons as the ideas (representees and representors) and the "arms" (axons, dendrites) of the neuron - connecting it to other neurons - as the relationship called "representation" or association. If a complex visual stimulus (of you seeing a cow) is, through the microscope, observed to happen at the back of your brain, you´d see it connect to a much smaller "mind´s cow"-concept both as a linguistic item and an imagined mind´s eye visual item. How is this different from gluing a photograph of a cow on the same piece of paper onto which a 3-year-old has drawn "a cow", and writing "a cow" as a third representor of the actual - and now we get to Plato´s map-territory-distinction - cow itself? There is a real cow on the meadow but our paper has three objects referring to it - just as our brain has three objects referring to it. If we´d brainstorm around the word "cow" on the paper, the paper would exactly resemble how our brain
represents external phenomena like the cow.
God: So what differentiates you, human, from a computer or a piece of paper is that you bias your representations and seek through your representations in search for evolutionary benefits, is that right?
Plato: My intuition tells me that my world-map is more significant than the cow on the paper or the coffeecup determined to represent the chair.
Darwin: Our world-view is what our plans are made in; it is the house of our imaginary future and of our past; our mental map is the context to everything that happens. Whether God gave revelations to bronze-age men is either true or false, but it is the mental map i.e. our world-view that sets the context for what is possible and what is impossible. The future wars coming from the economic decline of the world will be religious wars if humanity does not steer away from its current path. Religious wars is all about "true or false"-claims about the context, about the house of our plans, about our world-view. Being of differing opinions on questions about the context and what it can and can´t do (for example: give revelations other than as human-found truths about God) is the bringer of large-scale war; if the context could be agreed upon by everyone - if we can start from Descartes´ certain truth and work our way up to having a context/world-view that explains everything - then we can ask where/if a revelation-giving side-in-war-choosing God fits in it. The context/world-view is what it is: so far we´ve gone from Descartes certain truth of I exist and thought exists, to claiming that the former warrants the idea "distinction", then we talked about anti-distinction (that of which all is part / Reality / God (if God is as grand and thus as much worth worshipping as Reality).
Darwin: Then we talked about how human life is all representation, biased and emotional such.
God: That´s why you have a different intuition and relationship toward "representation" that I do. I´m very liberal when it comes to whom or what or when something starts and stops representing something else. I know that representing is very important for you humans, but I didn´t design the cosmos antropocentrically (with you as my dearest and your representations more worthwhile than any other phenomena). Representation to me means as much as dancing: God doesn´t dance. If you take great delight in it, nay - if your whole life all is it from beginning til end - then still I don´t care about it any more than the sudden, totally independent of humans noticing, pictures painting or computers storing, representation of a chair using a coffee cup. I´ll let the coffee cup represent the chair while at the same time having nothing represent nothing in the same scenario. I´ll both set representation as the
relationship between the coffee cup and chair, and simultaneously set non-representation as the relationship. You can see my point if two strangers walk into the room never having thought about representation in the way we´re talking about it: I´ll ask them: does the coffee cup represent the chair? One person says yes and the other says no. Both are right and both are wrong. Representation is arbitrary. From a God´s eye point-of-view anything can represent anything, nothing can represent everything - anything you can imagine the word "represent" be used for is always simultaneously both active and inactive. That´s why you get difficulties in getting the world world to agree on a single dictionary definition for any one word: God didn´t make these (representation) rules, man created them to better be able to communicate. It´s a shared agreement amongst humans (and cats and dogs if they know their names). A word represents something but there is no universal language (God didn´t choose, say, arabic as The Language) meaning that representing itself is a human game which eases gaining evolutionary benefits. God couldn´t care less what we use to represent what and there definitely is no God-given representations available.
Socrates: We left off, in our philosophy, at the conclusion that "we don´t see (see meaning represent) Reality" because we are in the realm of distinctions while Reality is defined as that of which all is part i.e. anti-distinction. The distinction-antidistinction relationship is as follows: they are both legitimate words; they are opposites but both are true simultaneously and always; humans exist in both realms but as seers/representors in the distinction-realm (because observation is separation) and as non-seers/non-representers when trying to see/represent Reality. When we try to represent anti-distinction we must ask ourselves: how did God define "represent"/"see". We concluded that although humans and other map-making animals put great importance on representations, God does not. God will let a coffee cup represent a chair and simultaneously not - the notion "represents" as a relationship between two objects is from God´s point of view there´s zero importance to what represents what: representation is an arbitrary relationship to God (if it can be called "a relationship" at all because it is us map-making humans that for evolutionary reasons insist on biasing our thoughts to have such relationships in the first place). The act of representing is 100% loosely (not strictly) defined from God´s point of view; representing is antropocentric - something humans do while the relationship "this represents that" both exists and doesn´t exist stand-alone from humans in nature.
God: I don´t care if a rock represents a tree right now - representations, like beauty is said to be, is in the eye of the beholder and eyeless things like Gods simply aren´t concerned with what humans have defined to represent what.
Socrates: So the smallest could represent the largest?
God: Why not - if you will it, it does. If you claim the representing is as you say, then the representing is as you say. I´ve defined the notion "represents" as loosely as can be - maximally loosely - it is a completely arbitrary human game to which I´ve set no rules.
Plato: Remember the part of the discourse when we concluded that "we don´t see/represent Reality" (and not because of the platonic cave-metaphor but because of the more fundamental opposition between distinction and anti-distinction)? Representation being defined by God as it is, combined with the statement "I don´t represent Reality (due to distinction-antidistinction-opposition)" is...
God: Revelation - truth about Me. More holy than any holy book. The more complex (reaching a higher level of intelligence) the conclusion, the more distinct are you from the lower animals and the more detailed the sculpture/world-view you´re building becomes. You´re basically wiring your brain to become as I, God, make it if you think about me enough.
Plato: True - this pinnacle of intellectual civilization has, if space is infinite and evolution common, been reached on infinitely many planets before ours first though. If time is infinite then what we´re discussing is the apex of a mountain that every civilization in eternity climbs.
Darwin: The reason it´s new is because it´s hard. The reason it´s hard is because evolution gave us a toolkit (mind) that falls into pitfalls as soon as intellectual discourse doesn´t fit what cavemen were dealing with in their maps, plans etc - and trust me: their context/most all-encompassing map/world-view, even though they liked to have divinities with wills as causes for earthquakes, did not get to this point - coming from Certain Truth, avoiding tens of pitfalls that want to make us give up the whole search for truth and a universal mind/world-view.
Plato: Darwin, this world-view - because it is basically a "view of Reality/the world" albeit a very well organized, abstract one with pitfalls to be avoided - isn´t what our brain evolved to deal with as "the context under which our lives unfold", is it? Yet all this abstractness, all this highly civilized talk like taking the word "represent" out of context and asking what God thinks about it, is indeed true.
Socrates: I´m not going to talk about this topic again nor remember any of this unless this discussion leads up to a conclusion, preferrably seeable, which explains (answers the questions why? and how?) anything and everything I might want to ask. It should be so full-fledged that pseudo-explanations like
the religious ones pale in comparison. That´d defeat group-bonding and thus humanity can evade large-scale future wars.
God: Relax - we are not even half-way through the story / sequence of logical thoughts. The last thing we arrived at was that I don´t define "represents" and you, or a computer, or why not something that doesn´t even seem to do representing, represents one thing using another.
Socrates: "I represent Reality" is a true claim since "represents" could mean "see" and we do indeed see, so we represent - and what do we represent? A part of Reality. No-one would deny that they experience/represent everyday life. But, because of distinction-antidistinction-opposition nothing can represent antidistinction because all representation is tethered to distinction. Distinction - having one thing have the relationship "I represent..." toward another thing - is a necessity for representation unless representation is so loosely defined by God that you don´t even need two things to do representation - maybe God´s opinion is that a thing can represent itself without any distinction present. That is a question for another day, so for now let´s consider humans: we do see something - we do experience/represent life - and there is distinction present in all human representations when we represent Reality/anti-distinction. But if, for human representations, distinction is unavoidable when claiming to represent the opposite of distinction, then the opposite of distinction - that of which all is part / Reality - cannot be represented in its anti-distinct nature.
Plato: Again we are back at the conclusion "I don´t see Reality" - and as you can see we don´t see everything as One: if we did, we wouldn´t see or know the difference between ourselves, a chair and a coffee cup. Human representations always have distinction in it like Descartes said when he gave us two certain truths instead of one: I think and - insert distinction here - I exist.
God: It is a universal truth - a law of nature, if you will - that nothing which sees can see anti-distinction. Reality is like a two-sided coin: on one side you have "the ten thousand things"/distinction and on the other side you have "that of which all is part"/the most all-encompassing singular anti-distinction. This is why humans can say "I don´t see Reality" - they mean one of the sides of the coin.
Plato: When we see the distinction-side of the coin - the only side which we can see - do we see all there is to Reality? I don´t know. But when we consider/represent as best we can the other side of the coin (antidistinction), we certainly do not see Reality.
God: If we focus on the distinction-side of the coin, you are unaware of the answer to the question: "is there more to Reality than can be represented?". The answer can either be yes or no - maybe our distinct representations - or let´s say a coffeecup independent of humans - represent all there is to Reality. But on the other side of the coin (the anti-distinction-side) you get a clear answer to whether you see/represent all of Reality or not: no, you do not.
Plato: We, nor a coffee-cup, represents - eventhough represents is infinitely loosely defined - something but not Reality because Reality is anti-distinction by being that of which all is part. Certainly there is one Reality and certainly does nothing, despite the looseness of the definition of "represents", represent that Reality.
God: I gave Reality the property of being unseeable/unrepresentable. Sure - the coin has another side which leaves the question: "can any representation manage to represent all of Reality?" an unclear answer: maybe what we see when we are distinct (as we always are) all of Reality. But the other side of the coin tells us that no representation - not even the coffeecup - is enough to represent Reality. Even in the thought-experiment that things are allowed to represent themselves - no distinction needed - there´d be at least two things (and thus not anti-distinction) if something (even Reality as a whole itself) would try to represent Reality as a whole.
Socrates: So God, through our reasoning/logic, gave us two questions: "can X represent Reality when Reality is considered to be its infinitely many parts (distinction)?" and "can X represent Reality when Reality is considered to be just one all-encompassing whole (anti-distinction)? The questions can be rephrased as: "is Reality infinite?" and the first question (when Reality is considered as distinct parts) leaves the question "is Reality infinite?" unanswered - we simply don´t know when we limit our information like this. But the second question gives a clear answer to the question "is Reality infinite?" because of two reasons: 1) we do not see/represent Reality eventhough we do experience life i.e. represent something. No matter how loose God considers representations to be, no representation represents "that of which all is part" because it is anti-distinction and representation tethers distinction to whatever is being represented. We do see some (distinction) but no representation represents anti-distinction which is synonymous to Reality; we do see something but we don´t see Reality (and not for the platonic-cave reason; instead the reason is the opposition between anti-distinction (the oneness of Reality) and distinction (which is inevitably used when representation occurs (and it occurs all the time according to God, regardless of humans)).
Plato: We got two questions from God and one premise: the premise was that representation is distinction. The first question was "do we see Reality (when the side of the coin that shows distinction is
considered). The answer to this first question was that we don´t know whether we represent "all of it" or not (whether we represent "that of which all is part"/Reality or if we don´t). If we don´t, considering how loosely "represents" is defined by God, we still know that representation occurs i.e. the coffeecup can be said to represent that of which all is part: the coffee cup represents as much as is possibly allowed: I could claim that one notion of mine represents that of which all is part. This being the answer to the first question, it would be possible for Reality to be finite because I can claim to represent Reality using one notion. With this distinction-based question and answer Reality could be finite or it could be infinite; Reality could be considered to be represented if Reality is finite - we simply don´t know if Reality is finite or infinite when we´re looking at the "Reality is the ten thousand things / distinction"-side of the coin. The second question, "do we see Reality (when the side of the coin that shows anti-distinction is considered?", has only one answer: no, we do not represent Reality because representation is distinction. Whatever we represent, whatever is being represented is not Reality when Reality is considered to be anti-distinction (because distinction is inherent in representations). Anti-distinction cannot be represented; we don´t represent Reality no matter how much or what we represent.
God: Reality comes as both anti-distinction and distinction. When you asked questions about the distinction-version of Reality you got the answer that you might represent it or you might not - it may be infinite or it may not be (if it is infinite it can´t be represented). When you asked questions about the anti-distinction version of Reality you got the answer that no matter the representation and no matter how loosely God has defined what representation means, representation cannot represent Reality because distinction is inherent in representation. You cannot represent Reality.
Plato: Representation is distinction like when Descartes said that the self that certainly exists is distinct from a notion/thought/idea/representation (which certainly exists too). When Reality´s distinction-side is considered, you don´t know if all of Reality can be represented or not - but it´s an open possibility that a coffee cup or mental notion is a reference to "all of it", and if that be the case then Reality must be finite. We got two questions that start out the same: "do we see Reality if Reality is..." 1) distinct entities, 2) a single all-encompassing whole. We obviously see distinct entities but we don´t know whether a notion or coffee cup, based on God´s definition of "represents", can be said to represent Reality. If Reality would at this point in our logical discourse be known to be infinite, then nothing could represent it. But it is only when we ask "can something represent Reality when Reality is anti-distinction?" that we get the answer "representation is distinction i.e. you cannot represent Reality", meaning that without a doubt Reality must be infinite because there is no way to represent it.
Darwin: It´s a pitfall of the mind that Reality has this dual nature of both being One and simultaneously being many distinct parts. This dual nature lets God pose two questions to us which both are asked in order to answer a third question, namely "is there infinitely much to Reality?". If Reality would only be distinction and not at all anti-distinction then we´d get a "maybe - I don´t know"-answer to the
questions "is Reality infinite?" and "can Reality be represented?". But since the second question deals with Reality´s anti-distinction-nature, we get the answer that there is no way to represent it - and yet we talk about it! For logic to occur Reality must be infinite because our words obviously refer to it (represent it) but we know that we do not represent it because it is anti-distinction and words are distinction. Distinct words can, as we do in this very sentence, represent it (mind you how loosely God uses the word "represents"/"refers") - and yet one claim holds true: that anti-distinction cannot be represented. We do represent and refer to something - and we try to make that something "that of which all is part" (a singular anti-distinction) - and we stand with two facts:
Plato: 1) That we do represent Reality because we are speaking about it, using notions like anti-distinction/"that of which all is part" to represent it in that very loose way in which God defined "represents" - and yet we know that the distinction-antidistinction-opposition makes us unable to do what we just said we did: speak about / refer to / represent Reality. The only solution to this is that there is more to Reality than can be referred to / spoken about / represented. We do represent something (and we try to make that something "Reality") with our words, yet we know from distinction-antidistinction-opposition that there is a reason more fundamental than Plato´s cave metaphor which makes Reality incapable of being represented. We represent something (even with the word "Reality") but we do not represent Reality. This is proof that there is infinitely much to Reality - when we speak about "that of which all is part" we are only speaking about part of it (no matter how much hypotheses we add to our representor).
Socrates: So the distinction-antidistinction-opposition that makes representations of Reality impossible make it so because we are capable of representing something (of Reality) but, despite the looseness of God´s word "represents", we are not referring to / representing all of Reality. No matter how much we refer to, we do not refer to Reality as a whole - and the only way this makes sense is by Reality being infinite.
Plato: When Reality´s distinction-side is considered, we don´t know if Reality is infinite or not because our representation (be it a word or a coffee cup) doesn´t yield the answer: "not even that representation, with not even that definition of the word 'represents', represents (all of) Reality". But when considering our blindness in any of our representations when Reality´s anti-distinction-nature is considered, making a representation of Reality yields the answer: "by the distinct referring to the anti-distinct, the representation does not refer to Reality", which answers "yes" on the question "is Reality infinite?" because we can play around infinitely much with God´s definition of "represents" and still none of our attempts represents Reality. The word "anti-distinction" represents Reality but since it simultaneously, due to distinction-antidistinction-opposition, does not represent Reality, then Reality must be infinite. We do see something but we don´t see all of it, no matter how much we try to play around with the word "represents" or "refers to".
Darwin: How much of a pitfall for the mind is that?! We ask the same question - "do I represent Reality?" - to both Reality´s distinct flipside of the coin and to Reality´s anti-distinct flipside of the coin. From the distinct side we can´t conclude anything about the infinity of Reality, but from the anti-distinct side we can conclude that Reality is infinite. We asked one question - "do I represent Reality?" - and based on the answers we were able to answer another question: "is Reality infinite?". Yes it is because only the infinite cannot be represented (with God´s loose definition of "representation"/"reference to"). There are so many pitfalls of the mind regarding this that it boggles the mind - but new 21st century science can only exist if it goes through mental acrobatics to yield a goal like the answer "Reality is infinite (and we only represent part of the infinite)".
God: Good job, humans! You´ve led an uninterrupted path from Certain Truth to that Reality is Infinite without making any assumptions along the way. What you have so far is True - your world-view has now, without a doubt, gotten the notion "infinite Reality". Now the hard part of logic is over and only easy conclusions remain - in no time you´ll have a world-view that, based on the 100% certain methodology used so far, explains the creation of the world, the dawn of evolution, the human emotional repertoire etc. But as a reward for having found out that I, God, am infinite I´ll tell you a direct conclusion from the fact of infinity: there are infinitely many planets where the exact same mental acrobatics were done to prove the exact same point; in the now-proven-to-be infinite Reality there are infinitely many creatures just like you whom used the exact same sequence of logical steps, beginning from exactly the same "I think & I am"-starting point - and their brains, their "world-view" also added infinity to the grandest context in which everyone´s lives unfold. To be funny about it: you´re thinking like an alien (extraterrestrial, which there are infinitely many of because Reality is infinite). To be serious about it: your civilization just took a step in a universal direction - along God´s path - instead of into some rare arbitrary direction. You´ve just proven that there are infinitely many civilizations and you proved that by using certain truth plus logic - do you know how many other civilizations across infinite space have taken, are taking or will take the exact same direction (logic is light a flashlight that guides us through the dark into the right direction) using the exact same starting point (certain truth), prevented the exact same future horror-scenario (wars over lack of universal knowledge, or rather group-bonds based on non-universal holy books) and avoided/overcome the same darwinian pitfalls which were the reason why this science was invented so late in human history. Everyone likes a revelation - if you believe something came directly from God you are appropriate to respect it; the infinite Reality in which infinitely many aliens use the exact same sequence of thoughts (beginning from certain truth, noticing the pitfalls, etc until the infinity of Reality is proven) - the exact same textbook/curriculum. The fundamental ideas taught so far can be taught in any order, but only one or a few orders are the same orders that are chosen, based on logic, on the majority of alien civilizations. The language of the book will be different from planet to planet but the order of the ideas, the universal evolution-based pitfall warnings, the most essential elements of this book are true revelation if revelation is defined to be universal i.e. accessible to logic on any of the infinitely many planets.
Most planets, it can be reasonably assumed, appriciate science and thus let logic guide them in their shopping
for a world-view that makes sense. No matter how much time out of infinitely much time passes, God has installed the same pitfalls, order or ideas, the same starting point etc etc - the same book in essence - in the very fabric of Reality. It is exactly what´s needed to both advance civilization and to prevent coming wars from having an element of holy book-based group-bonding which scales up the war. Everyone likes a revelation and what you´ve just read is the first truly holy book, the first world-view applicable to everyone (throughout an infinite universe), the first revelation by God choosing the order of ideas, where the pitfalls will be, what the starting point should be, etc.
Plato: We got from "I think and I am" to "distinction" to "all is part of a single Reality called anti-distinction" to asking questions about the representability of Reality and thus being able to ask what the answers to the representability-questions tell us about the extent/infinity of Reality. God, what´s the next step on this universal sequence? We want to wire our brain more in the way that you chose to be good for thinking animals. We want to be more like the majority of highly-civilized planets - to have the same ideas and the same associations and explanations between those ideas.
Socrates: I´m assuming the next idea to be presented won´t be a random choice from among many ideas, but will be the logically chosen by the path set by God in eternity, and thus the practicality on the majority of highly-civilized planets.
God: Reality is infinite, but do you know what is infinite about Reality? Every object or even region of empty space has two important parameters that determine its nature: size and time. Objects of a large size, say galaxies, are studied as a separate field of science - it´s its separate school of thought - compared to objects of a smaller size, say atoms. You can ask these two questions about any object: what is its size and where along a time-axis is it located? If you study every field of science - from cosmology to quantum physics, evolutionary psychology to the history of freedom - you´ll end up needing a wall, because a wall is a square and each and every piece of knowledge will fit on a square-shaped size-time-coordinate system.
Socrates: We´ve said that Reality is infinite. Now we´ve said that every thing has a size and a time and thus fits into a size-time-diagram. What exactly in or about Reality is it that is infinite, if not the size-axis and time-axis which as a square displays every object known to man. What else could be infinite if it´s not size and time that are infinite?
Plato: Size is just a way of saying "three dimensions, each dimension´s length being a particular number of centimeters". Can one separate time from that? No: time is inherent in space and space is inherent in time. Time is called "the 4th dimension". "Spacetime" is a single word referring to either a finite or infinite spacial region with either a finite or infinite length of time. Space (to which size is inherent) and time are united, yet on a square-shaped size-time-diagram the two are on axises perpendicular to one another. Drawing the diagram like so is the easiest - and thus universal i.e. favorite among God and the majority of aliens - way of getting, into a single picture, all that science has ever found or can hope to find when it comes to regions or objects. The footnote is that the two axises might look separate but are in reality a single spacetime - separating them is done for the cosmetic reason that then all that is known by science fits into a single square picture.
God: Guess how many highly-civilized planets in my infinite realm do indeed use the square to symbolize their knowledge of everything that has a size and time? The square - not the cube nor the sphere nor the triangle - is God´s visual. It is this square that is infinite from the conclusion that Reality is infinite. It can´t be so that only size or only time is infinite because the two are connected: a single spacetime. There is infinitely large and infinitely small (spaces) and there is infinitely much past and infinitely much future (time). The universal symbol for this - God´s drawing - is a square with infinity-symbols at the ends of each axis.
Plato: Even a kid knows the following but it is worth mentioning because it, even though obvious, is God´s truth and leads to something much more significant: sizes are because of one another; the smaller makes up the larger and the larger is the reason why the smaller can exist. We can call this "sizes justify one another", the word "justify" meaning a "because"-relationship or a "is, for its existence, dependant on"-relationship. Now that we know that Reality is infinite and that everything science will ever find in Reality will fit on a wall (square), we´ll do like both aliens and God wants us to and proclaim that the size-axis and by extension the relationship between any two sizes is justification. When you ask the question: "why is there the object of X size? / how does object of X size work?" the answer inevitably will be - regardless of whether you´re asking about a galaxy or you are a medical doctor asking about an organ - to zoom in and zoom out: to look at the larger and the smaller.
God: Do you know why 99.999999% of alien planets with advanced civilizations, when they draw the size-axis on their wall, let the upward (roof) direction represent the larger and the down (floor) direction represent the smaller? It feels like a bit of a stretch to say it´s directly God´s truth / God´s way of representing time along a vertical axis. It turns out that humans tend to see more (larger things) when they lift their head, and when they bow their head way down they tend to be akin to zooming in on detail. It comes from how evolution shaped human anatomy - which is universal too, alike on all planets, and thus God´s system too. The telescopes looked upward and the microscopes downward. There´s no
other reason to represent upward on the diagram as "larger" and downward as smaller - it is basically history (evolutionary such) that determines that all planets represent up as large.
Plato: What about the horizontal time axis? Some cultures read and write from left to right and others from right to left.
God: Left-right and right-left is totally arbitrary - there was no evolutionary benefit in reading in one direction over the other, and there´s nothing in God´s work from which one can derive that one of these directions is more universal than the other. Looking at all infinitely many highly-civilized planets, it´s 50/50 whether they represent future to the left or to the right - but they do represent time horizontally because size naturally occupies the perpendicular vertical axis.
Plato: God, here´s a riddle for you: guess why you become less necessary due to the justification-relationship between sizes? Why does the vertical axis diminish your significance, at least regarding the bronze-age view of you and the view of you that combatants that think you choose sides in wars have?
God: It used to be said that I was the cause for everything. But with Reality being infinite and Reality coming as a size-time-diagram, and the relationship that runs up-down and down-up the vertical "size" axis being justification, there is one part less mystery to the existence of the world when the size-axis is infinite, meaning justification as a relationship between sizes has infinite reach. Justification means "the answer to the question: why is there X?" - X is justified (by the smaller and the larger than X). If the answer for why there is the field of science called size X i.e. why there are objects of particular size-dependant characteristics found in size X, the answer is because of the larger than X and because of the smaller than X. If that relationship between sizes runs infinitely deep into the infinitely large and into the infinitely small, then there is always a reason for the reason for the reason ... for the reason why there are X-sized objects. The same reasoning works on the entire known size-range (which runs from cosmology/the visible universe to quantum physics): there is infinitely much reason/justification as smaller sizes (below our vertical axis on our diagram) and the same applies for the larger sizes: the "first cause" (as if there were one) keeps retreating the further we look for it and it can withdraw into infinity (because Reality is infinite).
Darwin: Ever since the first question about cause and effect was asked (in ape-man days) the answering reply was that some willing divinity had wanted whatever was asked about to exist - even be it the entire known world. The same answer has been given countless times in modern days. It took quite a while of civilizational progress before the answer to "why is there a world that ranges from large to
small and small to large? Why is there everything between cosmology and quantum-physics size-wise?" was answered based on the hitherto established conclusion that Reality is infinite and that all parts of Reality fit on a size-time-diagram: the reason for why the known size-range exists is the infinitely small and the infinitely large - "our" size-range is but a part of an infinite size-range where the relationship of justification observed between any two sizes in our sizerange also exists between any sizes in the infinite size-range. The domain name www.sizerange.com was available until 2017, meaning not many people plot all knowledge on a size-time-diagram on a wall and reason that the reason why there is the vertical (size) axis in the first place is because it is infinite (giving "infinite justification" as the reason, and a valid reason it is!).
God: From concluding that Reality is infinite, you concluded that - since everything about Reality fits on a size-time-diagram - then size must be infinite, which gives a reason why there is any one size or any one size-range.
Plato: From ape-man days until modern times the word "God" was the reason for everything and anything´s existence, but ever since the discovery of the size-range being infinite God has one less "creating the world"-task to do; no longer is mystery or a will needed to explain why all fields of science (say, between cosmology and quantum physics) exist: infinite justification; infinity-symbols on each axis on the size-time-diagram.
Darwin: For the entirety of our evolution, our mental maps have incorporated things like where to go to find water, whom one´s parents are... - geographical and social maps have been our only maps. More near the modern times our maps became multi-purpose tools able to learn how to read/write and use computers. Tool-use/technology-use is something different, though, than having the entire context in which one lives be (represented as) a square with infinity symbols in each corner, with infinite size-justification and infinite time-justification being secured truths about the square. We evolved to have our largest context within which we live our lives be a geographical or social map, or something like a nation or religion (with its rituals etc) be both the binding force between people and the - rather mysterious-feeling - context and cause for one´s existence. The "theory of the world", the map which incorporated all smaller maps like geographical and social ones, used to be the nation state or the religion one belonged to. And now it´s supposed to change into the multi-detail thorough-reasoned universal size-time-diagram? Never has the largests of the contexts for our lives been so dependant on logical argument, many facts - and never before has one´s widest map which explains one´s existence been so universal meaning there is no "us vs. them" in it. It´s truly a cosmopolitan universal identity many times more complex than any old national/historical/religious context/map/identity. The upside of it is that having it as the context one lives in and which explains one´s existence is a step in a more advanced, more peaceful, more universal direction.
God: I put that map there to be found by anyone who uses rationality to go through the steps taken in this universal sequence of rational conclusions following one another. Whenever one has reasoned one´s way to that Reality is infinite, it follows that if size is infinite then that´s one pillar/foundation/idea in an existential theory. This hints that there is a theory which explains the time-axis too, and a theory for why there is something rather than nothing filling the infinite square size-time-diagram. Once one has all three pillars to the existential theory, that sculpture should predict the advent of a reproducing piece of mass such as a DNA-strand. Size being infinite doesn´t explain the chronology from the Big Bang to the emptying universe, nor does it explain why there is something rather than nothing. An infinite size-range explains a third of what´s needed for a complete existential theory, so for now we´re assuming there is a sensical chronology to the history of the Big Bang and an explanation how nothing can summon everything in the size-range. The existential theory (the theory that answers: "why do we exist?") rests on three pillars out of which the infinity of the size-range is one. Assuming two pillars (a pillar is a foundational idea on which the answers to all above questions sits - once all three pillars are in place the entirety of our Context (where and why we live our lives) is understood. Having all three pillars derived logically - like we did the infinite size-range-pillar - will be the universal Theory of Everything.
Darwin: The change of one´s grandest context is going quickly: for millions of years it was one´s family/tribe, then it became one´s ruler/nation/religion, then we went through a few -isms which were trying to dominate the whole world - capitalism winning throughout most of the world, yesterday people´s grandest context was either their bronze-age religion based on unfounded beliefs, or an incomplete science. Today it is a three-pillared existential theory which completes science by answering the large-scale chronology of the infinite time-axis and why the size-range is filled rather than empty. These three pillars taken together then predicts a world - not our world in particular but first a reproducing shape (a DNA-strand) and further on a universal world-view with pitfalls for the mind. The Grand Contexts (which explained one´s life) of nation, religion or -ism all had one thing incommon: logic (in the theory/context) wasn´t a pitfall for the mind. It´s a paradigm-shift to identify as an entity in a context that makes sense, requires a lot of logic and that our brain wasn´t adapted for (and thus the logic has pitfalls for the mind).
God: But after the world undergoes this paradigm-shift from mysterious and/or simple Grand Contexts like nation or religion, there won´t be any more paradigm-shifts in one´s identity coming: logic is the final solution - the lasting identity. Guess why 99.999999% of the planets within my infinite space has this paradigm-shifting three-pillared existential theory/Grand Context-mental map? It´s because it only takes one person to invent/discover it, and then it will spread and spread - and once a human has learned the true existential theory/"location of one´s life in the grand scheme of things", it´s impossible to revert back to some context-map that lacks pitfalls that Darwin explains but also lacks explanatory value and a scientific vibe. It´s inevitable for advancing civilizations to walk God´s path of rationality until
the brain evolved for tribe/nation/religion re-wires itself to adapt to a map/grand context/existential theory/reason for its existence consisting of logic, universal God´s sequences of thoughts with pitfalls for the mind. For millions of years we´ve had no pitfalls for the mind in our grand context-maps, nor have we had thorough explanations to why we´re here. Still 90% of the world´s population believes in a pitfall-free dogma- and ritual-based grand contexts - and bind to groups based on them (which will be a problem once the world starts to decline) - with mystery instead of logic because of our natural Grand Context being tribe/nation/religion. 99.999999% of civilizations across infinite space has the scientific rational map despite all its pitfalls (that are due to evolution wanting tribe/nation/religion as the Grand Context). We have millions if not billions of years left to live on earth - of course the Grand Context/existential theory founded on certain truth and built by rationality will outlive bronze-age pseudo-explanations to why we exist. The current world religions offer no explanatory value but they satisfy the mind´s need for a Grand Context by speaking about mysteries not meant to be understood, or unprovable statements that contradict the three-pillared built-from-certain-truth map which, unlike religions, is universal instead of dangerously "us vs. them"-mentality-creating. We should start turning down the heaters to reduce global carbon emissions, but instead we´re building up for war because of the "us vs. them"-mentality-creating nature of bronze-age Grand Contexts that satisfy but don´t explain, that dictate and order around but offer no logic/rationality, that say "don´t understand that - it´s a mystery" instead of "here´s the explanation but your evolved mind will find it to be a pitfall".
Plato: do you think that a person who is a fresh slate and given the two options - modern truth or bronze-age religion - and fully understood both options, would rather take the religious choice because it requires no thinking for yourself (instead it offers very clear rituals and dictates), contains mysteries (like a talking God who gives revelations such as "don´t eat pork") instead of logic with logic´s inevitable pitfalls for the mind (such as that it´s hard to comprehend an infinite size-range being just one pillar out of three in an existential theory that deals with Big Bang and evolution)? Also, religions offer unfounded carrots at the end of the road: you get to heaven after you die.
Socrates: I think it´s hard to choose the untruth once you know the truth. But while your mind is firmly planted in untruth it´s certainly as comfortable as a con-man´s gentle voice. Truth and rationality demand you pause and verify based on your own logic; mystery can be as easily held onto as it is comforting that, say, one is being taken care of by a God which is not an infinite uncaring sizerange, but instead somekind of willing mind that interferes with his Creation through mysteries (which beg you do not even try to understand them, unlike logic which takes effort to comprehend). The battle between the paradigm-shifting three-pillared existential theory and the bronze-age religions reveal the grandest of all pitfalls for the mind: we are, due to having lived so for millions of years, inclined toward: getting a clear list of orders and rules to obey to get a mysterious pleasant gift at the end of the road; being told that the rationale through which Creation spawns is a mystery, yet satisfying one´s thirst for an answer that can bind the group together by having "...in 6 days." as a to-be-remembered part of the creation story / existential theory. That covers rituals and dogmas. We´ve had language for hunderds of
thousands of years and science for a few hundred years - most talk ever produced ordered people around (rituals) and gave a Grand Context which could unite a group and give an "us vs. them"-attitude (dogmas). Science and logic has lead to a world-view which lacks rituals, causes as much group-cohesion and "us vs. them"-mentality as knowing math, contains ideas and rationales which are pitfalls for the mind - tasks we are barely fit to accomplish, and we accomplish them uncomfortably (we´d prefer a mystery where we can be lazy and not even try to understand it). 99.9999999% of planets have this ritual-lacking pitfall-full logically exhausing non-mysterious "think for yourself" dogma-free Grand Context for their lives because the history of a planet is so very long - we are only halfway through our earth´s history. But we better hurry up in spreading the truth based on logic because religion causes large-scale grouping ("us vs. them"-mentalities in vast groups of people) which causes wars against other groups. These wars, with exceptions for Afghanistan, Syria, Iraq and Libya are rare now because of uninterrupted economic growth, but when an economic decline, global warming or peak oil makes people feel hopeless and futureless, they´ll use their holy book-based group-bond to cause trouble - and trouble is bigger when the group is big; religion has always been a tool for making the group as big as possible. When group-binding over holy books is gone, it´s safer to have an economic decline because humans won´t have a group-mentality build in as enormous a flocks of people as religion has group-mentality build in today. The only way to get rid of large-scale uniform groups i.e. religions is to appeal to people´s reasoning. Starting from certain truth, etc...
Plato: So until we get the rational intellectual tradition to take over in the world, we´ll propably have a slow simmer of smaller wars where group-bonding is based on different interpretations of holy books - even though the current refugee crysis from Syria/Iraq is the biggest flow of refugees in a century, it´s still small potatoes compared to what´s coming if global warming, peak oil or an economic crysis hits: then we´ll regret that we didn´t do everything in our power to prevent large-scale group-bonding because a large war is worse than a small war. Once cities start drowing because of sea-level rise, or oil prices rise due to us having burned all of it, people will be desperate to survive and we´ll see them bind together based on some principle / anything incommon - and I´m sure it will be religion.
Plato: What would the case be if everyone dropped religion and instead took everything they needed from the logical existential theory?
Socrates: Well, the italians wouldn´t fight the french. Nationhood is no longer a legitimate-enough binder. Family-ties, acuaintances and friends... It´ll be wars between two tiny neighbouring villages, but multiplied all-over the world.
The universal text
I can tell you everything about God. This book won’t be a commentary on any holy book though; it won’t be in the tradition of interpretation of dogmas, sagas and mysteries. It won’t be a mystic’s spiritual book which disengages the rational analytical mind. Instead I’ll tell you everything about God in the tradition that Einstein and philosophers belonged to. It will be an algebra-like linguistic relationship-between-symbols (with just two visuals) analysis of what’s true.
I can tell you everything about God in the rational tradition – but before you think this will be an atheistic refutation of God, I might aswell reveal beforehand that God & Soul are legitimate concepts and we’ll discover their rational roots tens of thousands of years ago in this book. There is a natural narrative i.e. logical cohesion from step to step in the anatomy/history of the brain that leads up to the invention of God & Soul. The mind-processes/conscious abilities which result in God & Soul being realized and thus the ideas getting an impact on the world are utilized by simple means – it is relatively easy to just stumble upon God as an idea. This is why God & Soul date back to caveman days – they’re one of the earliest artifacts of civilization: like the spear.
To tell you everything about God I should do semantics i.e. define what I mean by the word God. I won’t mention dogmas other than The Golden Rule (do onto others like you’d want them to do onto you) not rituals other than showing universal scientific symbols (like the figures in this book) – what I’ll tell you about God will be rational/abstract/theoretical and not some pretext for following one culture’s dogmas/rituals over the other 10 000 religions’ dogmas/rituals.
I’ll show you how to for yourself figure out what God is, instead of turn you to any particular raising-paradigm/holy book.
There are three groups of people:
The intellectuals who are life-long learners learning for learning’s sake; the readers who are curious for the joy of answers and read for reading’s sake.
Those who see some reason to read/learn. I’ll tell you that the reason for making the arguments in this book popular is because almost every single war/conflict in today’s world is God-related. Knowing this book shows solidarity toward soldiers (if it’s a religious war) – teaching the idea that this book teaches can save soldiers’ lives. There is the moral argument that “it is more moral to drink & drive than to not save soldiers’ lives by helping make a book/idea popular”. If made popular, this book can make ISIS desintegrate and plunge into a civil war because nothing no longer binds them together in large a group (like “the kaliphate/the Quran/their god does).
Those who are not intellectuals/readers nor do they show solidarity toward everyone negatively impacted by misinterpretations of religions.
The name of this book hints at that I’ll try to write as closely as possible to what all revalations claimed to be: universal i.e. applicable to everyone. I’ll try to make the sequence of logic i.e. arguments i.e. what’s akin to an equation as universal as possible, meaning it can be figured out / derived no matter who or where one is. The implications of this is that this semi-revalation sequence-of-argument/logic is derived from the same Source identically on every human-like-life bearing planet in this infinite universe. This is why I call this text “The First Universal Text” preassuming the footnote that this text marks the beginning of a new intellectual tradition which is defined by its mission: to write universally. The idea in this book can be told in many less universal ways (which are maybe 0.001% of how the idea is “usually” (in the infinite universe) taught), but I’ll try to aim for the 99% usuality of how the idea is usually taught i.e. how the curriculum meta to the idea is designed. How do you design the curriculum – when a million different curriculums are possible and result in the readers learning the same idea – to be as universal as possible?
Instead of teaching the idea/science in a random order, can we derive from logic some starting points for the course (making the curriculum universal)? Yes: two starting points stand out akin to that it is logical to teach history chronologically; the two starting points for understanding God/creation/the universe are Nothingness & “I think & I am”.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
The first order of business is defining the starting points along the “Nothingness”-path & the “I think & I am” path.
Everyone spontaneously believes that he/she exists & that he/she thinks thoughts, but a man
figured this out
in the 1600s. He asked: “what in an allmighty demon would be fooling me in everything I can be fooled at/in?” What remains? Allmighty fooler on a mission to fool completely in everything.
He figured out “I exist” because there is a self necessary for a/that self to be fooled.
As a distinct line of reasoning he figured out that “being fooled is [thinking/a thought-process]”, in other words that thought exists as certainly as the self.
That is the starting point on the “I think & I exist”-path.
The man who figured this out in the 1600s, Descartes, didn’t do it to make a joke abour proving scientifically the most obvious, but he knew he had discovered a globally understandable starting point with much significance for religious conflicts. Descartes was invited to live at the queen of Sweden’s castle because of his creative rational thinking. He also invented the coordinate system ( x & y axis) to contribute to mathematics’ intellectual tradition. In this book we’ll reach Descartes’ coordinate-system invention (with size on the y-axis and time on the x-axis as the size-time diagram into which every object fits in as a coordinate) from Descartes’ “I think & BI am”-invention; the two are connected in logic but were not historically connected/associated together until I did it (400 years after Descartes invented both things).
How can you verify that what I said right now is true? I stated a historical claim about the non-associatedness of two ideas (invented by one and the same thinker). Unless you’re a history-of-science intellectual-tradition-historian you’d have a hard time verifying my claim of me deserving a prize for adding the logic that connects “I think & I am” to mathematics’ coordinate system (and the size-time diagram more specifically). Luckily the best university professors in sciences’ intellectual history are available on the internet (The Great Courses.com) and they go specifically into this topic in the “Philosophy of Mind” and “History of Science” courses – and since the best professors mention Descartes’ two ideas in one breath but not the connection between them in a 40-lecture course, you know that not even the best current minds know the connection i.e. I’ve invented something new (which is the logic that binds the two ideas together). It is fascinating, though, that one man (Descartes) invented two ideas that would be connected into a single logical sequence in which both ideas are necessary 400 years after his death.
Descartes’ certain truth (I think & I am) is in scientific circles referred to as “cogito ergo sum”, which is latin for:
- cognition (thinking)
- ergo = therefore
- sum = existence / I am.
I prefer to call it “I think & I am” though because it (especially the &-symbol) points out that they/there are two distinct conclusions – the logical pathways for deriving them are slightly different from one another.
Remember this as the word “distinction” because we’ll continue from that word when we return to this topic.
Chapter 2
I think & I am being derived as two distinct/separate statements through two distinct logical paths is quite abstract since some of the reasoning contains no pictures – the visual brainhalf is at some moments during the reasoning disengaged, making those parts of reasoning abstract. We’ll encounter much more abstract reasoning-pathways in this book, which is why it’s important to, in the beginning of the book, do reasoning about why some abstract reasonings are so hard to grasp that it took until the 21
st
century (me) to discover them.
As evolved animals we are made to maximize our re-arrangement of the natural, physical world for evolutionary benefits. We are not made to re-arrange the (non-existent; for superstitious people only) spiritual world. Nor are we made to deal with invisible mental objects – and we’ll deal with three of them – like glass windows. As long as we’ve had possessions we’ve had the ability to recognize if some possession was missing – we’ve had the cognitive system for spontaneously counting/seeing zero long before written symbols for numbers were invented. Written symbols for positive numbers were invented before the concept zero was invented. Zero, however, is one of those words which’s understanding shouldn’t conjure up any visuals. There can be plenty of linguistic explanation of features associated to the concept zero and one of them is that zer is non-visual (shouldn’t conjure up imaginations) meaning that the visuals we use for representing zero (such as the symbol 0) are just fingers pointing to a deeper tunderlying truth (which is invisible) – don’t look at the pointer/finger; but why does the brain have a hard time doing this? The simple answer is that we evolved to re-arrange the visible – we had no evolutionary benefits from the invisible.
It gets quite abstract, unintuitive and for said evolutionary reasons “unusual” (and civilized) when we’ll, later in this book, account for the explanation-based connections between three invisible (purely linguistic) ideas/concepts.
The reason why the message of this book is unintuitive (didn’t use to be an evolutionary benefit) and was discovered first in the 21
st
century has its explanation in the evolution & anatomy of the brain. Evolution and anatomy go hand in hand like history shapes architecture and intrastructure shapes history. It’s worthwhile looking at which evolution+anatomy-explanation, other wthan “we evolved to deal with the visible world and thus feel awkward about the invisible”, explains our repulsion toward the abstract/invisible eventhough our logic proves that it is true – the idea of this book is much like algebra and we should now look at why, evolution-anatomically, require a while to get as comfortable as one can get to the invisible ideas of this book.
We have two major modalities for remembering/understanding/explaining things: the visual (sensory) and the linguistic (abstract). They cooperate to let the animal adapt to its environment (by, for example, making plans based on future predictions (which themselves are based on abstract and sensory memories)). Some things that the visual brainhalf can do the abstract can’t do and vice versa. Whichever brainhalf most efficiently and strongly accomplishes a task is utilized to make the animal competative in the chase for evolutionary benefits.
This cooperation and communication between the two differentrly specialized brainhalves is a function/mutation which arose because it gave evolutionary benefits. The genes that gave rise to this
brainhalves-cooperating-function – which is based on either brainhalf specializing in either the visible or the invisible/abstract field of cognition – built on the earlier mutation/evolutionary benefit/trait of having a flexible (during the lifetime changing) part of the brain known as cortex.
The cortex first arose to “adapt the brain to the body” meaning that if the body mutated/got a birth defect/got injured/muscles got tired or weak, then still the animal could function to maximize evolutionary benefits despite its new bodily circumstances. The brain adapting to the body, in case let’s say an injury to the body, gave the organism a Super Mario-like extra life/extra chance – for example a bird with a 50% weaker left wing than right wing could, because of the flexible cortex, know/learn/acknowledge its disposition and adapt tits behavior/muscular movements to counteract the disadvantages that would’ve came about if the animal didn’t have a cortex. For example a bird meant to fly straight (seeing a butterfly in front of it) with a 50% weaker left wing would’ve sent the same muscular-activation-signal to both wings, but due to the weakness of the left wing the bird would’ve been flying counter-clockwise circles/faulty steering. With a small part of the bird’s brain that’s flexible i.e. able to learn, the saying “a cat has nine lives” became more real. This is a major benefit from the rather small mutation of having a flexible middle-man in the feedback loop from and to the muscle. Parrots obviously have a flexible part of the brain since they can learn to mimic sounds, dating back the first cortex to sometime around when birds had become complex enough to mutate just a few cortical neurons in the right place. The virtue of the very nature/anatomy of cortical neurons is that even a couple of neurons can be wired so that they 1) sense 100% activation of both wings intended by the brain, 2) sense feedback from the wings telling that the left wing only flexed with 50% of its strength, and 3) either inhibit the right wing’s activation by 50% or increase the muscular excitement to the left wing so that it reaches 150% - in either case the feedback loop with the flexible middleman makes both wings flap equally (if the bird wants to fly straight) even if one wing is injured/mutated/weak.
That is the origin/dawn/beginning of the cortex and dates it back to about 100 million years ago.
Building, through mutation, on that earliest cortex simpy enlargening the cortex would’ve allowed the cortical cells to exhibit new benefitial traits. Remembering that adapting (the brain) not only to one’s body but to the external environment too is, like cats do, building a simple mental map of the objects in one’s environment and learning from experience what can and can’t be done with them.
It’s quite straight-forward that a larger cortex – tin the animals whom need cognitive adaptiation to the environment to reap maximum evolutionary benefits – is better.
Along the story of humanity we formed hierarchical groups (king, aristocrats and slaves) and at about the same time possessions (and thus the first encounter with an abstract invisible: “my thing is missing!”) became a part of the human story.
Speaking of possessions – specifically the ownership of intellectual property – the courses I’ve seen on anthropology, archeology and Big History all fail to mention that the capitalist drive of the biggest cortexed proto-human smarting his or her way to the top of (or upward in the) hierarchy led to evolutionary pressures growing the cortex. The cortex with the most mass compared to its rival cortexes had 1) faster planning, 2) more memory and 3) more detailed social (personality) and environmental
maps. Power-hungriness – the ambition to climb upward in the hierarchy – let to the cortex growing generation after generation. Among many reasons, other than that the king orders his protectors/servants, is that females are attracted to the king because he commands the most resouces (especiallyu food-supply (which is necessary for maximizing any female’s number of offspring)). The most modern/civilized analogy/equivalent to a large food-supply is possession of ownership of intellectual property – in this case the fact that one of the world’s best archelogists/proto-human experts said that it is an explicit eunexplained mystery/question of science why the brain/cortex grew so very much during the latest era of burst-like brain-growth (the past 100 000 years). I like I said, claim that it was hierarchical upward mobility (and the king having the most babies) due to faster-, more accurate-, based on more memorized foundation- and predicting further into the future-planning (cortical abilities which correlated to the size of the cortex and which are more likely to elevate one, instead of lower one’s status, in the hierarchy). My claim that hierarchies made the cortex grow is intellectual property of my ownership.
The reasons for growth of the cortex illuminate what hkinds of thinking the brain dealt with and is made to deal with. There’s even negative incentives to think about the invisible (like zero): we base our reasoning off of and on our planning ability. In our plans we use the mediating concept “then” alot, just like we do in algebra (1+1=2 is much like 1+1 then 2) & argument. In arguments you set up premises that lead to (“then”) conclusions which in turn (“then”) become premises.
In evolution (and thus in the anatomy of our brains) sometimes plans had or resulted in a “???”-step; if some premise/step/conclusion in a plan was empty, this was our “symbol” (null) for considering the plan impossible, unfinished or not worthwhile committing as action.
Since reasoning about universal curriculum starting points like “I think & I am” and all the arguments between the start and fully explaining God/creation/the universe as 21
st
century science involves legitimate but invisible arguments (like zero), this book can feel like a plan in which one step was null/empty – and thus, despite verbal logic’s disagreement, the theory of brain-evolution predicts that the logic will feel like a plan gone wrong (or which is unfinished/faulty). The impossibility of making the steps of argument/logic in this book visual – and explicitly claiming that we’ll deal with three distinct but invisible (and thus looking the same & making the “plan” (upon which reasoning is based) feel faulty). What speaks against the feeling of “fault in the plan/reasoning”, though, are that:
the logic, eventhough triggering the feeling of “this is faulty/unfinished” by speaking of any of the invisible concepts, makes sense by being thorough logic, like solving equations, beginning from the premise/conclusion of Descartes’ certain truth.
It is possible to know the message of this book (including the three interconnected invisible ideas) without knowing or having chosen a specific curriculum for teaching the idaeas. The fact that many people can formulate the same ideas and logic between novel associations in practically infinitely many ways, and still be agreed upon and comprehendable by peers shows the disconnect between the (more or less universal) curriculum and the (unchanging) underlying idea. The idea is the scientific world-view and there are unlimited ways to communicate/teach
it. This scientific world-view is a new version, including a full explanation of God, of something that has been developing as a continuation of the history of (the curious, map-making) cortex.
Because argument/reasoning/logic is based on and is planted in planning (re-arraning real-world objects), truth/validity is based on the visualizable (“if you see it (happening in the future or further on in logic) you’ll believe it”) and we’ll be listing the facts about three unseeable objects, and world-views/diagrams which explain the universe/a coordinate-system-based existential theory is based on cognitive maps of the geographical and social environment, we’re using old cognitive abilities basically used for surviving on the savannah to do abstract 21
st
century science. This is why 21
st
century science feels awkward/unintuitive/faulty etc eventhough the logic can be put on paper like the solution of an equation, each step be verified, no faults found and thus one can feel the uniquely modern discongruity/mismatch between what one can 100% certainly know to be true, and the emotion which comes from the mismatch between, for example, an abstract diagram-based map of Reality and the cognitive million year old simple map-making-ability in which the 21
st
century abstract “map”/diagram is rooted. We’re using old abilities/mechanisms to do new things, overcoming rules like “if you can’t see one step (but “only” know it linguistically) the plan/reasoning is lacking” – we can use the number zero but thinking about its meaning in “101” (no tens) gives an awkward feeling of “something went wrong” (eventhough civilizing/reasoning/understaning/logic can subdue the awkward “something-went-wrong-because-I-can’t-see-it”-feeling. Likewise I will state “you can’t see X because...” at least three times in this book, explicitly claiming that that logic at that point will feel unintuitive (eventhough it can be put on paper and make sense) unless the feeling is subdued by civilizing. The evolved traits like “can’t see it = it doesn’t make sense yet = give it up” are why no-one discovered the message of this book until the 21
st
century. Our frontier-pushing reasoning is like a plant planted in a foundation (evolved cognitive traits like “can’t see it = don’t believe it”) which is not very fertile for plants; if we are a plant, our roots have hit some poisons in the dirt. For 21
st
century reasoning, our brain as in obstacle course. We have some genetically-based cognitive hinderances for our universal reasoning.
Chapter 3
If we call the path that begins with “I think & I am” “path A”, since we have two equally legitimate starting points to the curriculum that explains God, we can call the other path/starting point “path B”.
Definitions: all the following are synonyms: Nothing, spacetime, 0, zero, emptiness, non-existence, the void...
It’s legitimate to ask “what preceded [nothing]?” because we are in a non-empty universe which is becoming emptier by the moment (this is a well-known fact among cosmologists & the accelerating expansion/emptying is called “dark energy”). It is not legitimate, however, to ask the other “why?”-question about Nothingness: even though Nothingness has a chronological cause (because our universe will become nothing again), it doesn’t have a cause-and-effect relationship other than the chronological one, making the question: “why was there nothingness (and don’t give the chronological answer!)?” illegitimate. Nothingness is a starting point in reasoning
- it warrants no prior justification; as Kant would’ve said: it is the precondition in which everything happens: it is “a-priori” meaning none were
prior to it in a meaningful cause-and-effect relationship because nothingness doesn’t exist. What doesn’t exist denies the question: “why does it exist?” – it doesn’t! This makes Nothingness a valid starting point, path B, in a universal curriculum. Nothingness and “I think & I am” are equally good starting points. Asking “what is true about nothing?” or ”what is true in nothing?” is the starting point along path B of this universal curriculum.
One thing I usually say about nothingness is that it is emptier than we can imagine it as. Whatever your mind can produce, it’s still the mind producing it – we can’t escape the mind’s perspective i.e. its biological nature of everything it does (even when saying “nothing”) being neurons. Real nothingness is emptier than even our concept of nothingness.
The first order of business regarding this starting point was defining it, finding out why it’s universally considered a curriculum’s starting point and asking the most fundamental question about it: “what is true about/in it?”. The sentence “having nothingness...” doesn’t make intuitive sense because “having” implies you have something of existence, but having non-existence as our starting-point and having asked a question about it, knowing that we asked a question about it, is where we’ll continue when we get back to path B – but first we’ll examine path A further: we have thinker, thought and distinction (we listed two things, not one, and by doing so we’ve listed three things and thus can count three distinct things including distinction itself).
Path C
Reality, by definition, is “that of which all is part”. A single word/concept of which all is part is the exact opposite of distinctiveness. We concluded that “certainly distinction exists” and we did so in a Reality of which all is part. We are playing around with both opposites: plurality (distinction) and singularity/monotheism (anti-distinction). That Reality is one, could’ve been one starting point all by itself. If we would’ve started with Reality – the most all-encompassing – then it would’ve led us to conclude path A (that we think & exist) and it could’ve led us to ask a question about nothingness. If we would’ve taken “Reality is one” as a starting point, it would’ve opposed the starting point “there is distinction”. Usually our logic tells us that where there is opposition, there is fault in our reasoning – but this is obviously not true for considering the opposition between Reality (anti-distinction) and distinction. Both are legitimate words. The conclusion from pondering them – the elongation of path A – is that the opposition is a reason for why Reality can’t be, as thinkers & thoughts do, conceived. We never see reality as one – if we did then Descartes’ distinction between observer and object wouldn’t be true anymore. Reality can’t be seen/represented/observed/thought of fully/what-have-you because of the opposition between the starting points Reality is one and I think & I am (distinction vs. anti-distinction). It is thus not a statement about the Platonic cave-metaphor where our maps don’t correspond with (i.e. maps are distinct from) the territory; this is a statement about the “access denied” given to all distinct observers (and all observers are by Descartes’ definition distinct) to Reality – it’s a fundamental opposition (between distinction and anti-distinction, us and Reality) which makes Reality not even represented if there were no limits to representation (because the very act of representing is distinctioning). Regardeless of whether there are brains/computers to represent things (which, factually, there must be because as brains we define what represents what), but even if representation could be,
in a thought experiment, presumed to happen without us or computers - then still that representation couldn’t represent That of which all is part. This is a very subtle point which differentiates my way of not seeing Reality from Plato’s way of not seeing Reality – I put emphasis on the opposition between distinction and anti-distinction, Plato noted that mental maps are not physical territories. Both ways of not seeing Reality are true and legitimate, but my way means more: it means that regardless of brains ever existing and “representation” being as loosely/vaguely defined by the universe as it can be in the universe, the distinction-anti-distinction-opposition still makes Reality infinitely much more than there can ever be to it. Let’s say that the part there is to it now represents “all of Reality” – then distinction-anti-distinction-opposition holds true and thus we get that there is more to Reality even than whatever was represented, no matter how it was represented. So even if we say that however much there is to Reality may represent itself (Reality), then still the opposition between thinker & thought’s distinction holds true and causes an opposition with the also true oneness of reality (anti-distinction).
21
st
century science is supposed to be subtle. The conclusion, however, from all of this is that there is more to Reality than any representation (regardless of brains) can represent i.e. Reality is infinite. Exactly in which ways (size and time, energymass & spacetime) Reality is infinite we’ll consider in the continuation of this path A. Though this seems like a lot of mental effort reading (the reason why it’s new is because it’s hard) but it is all necessary to lead up to an existential theory which includes all possible knowledge about God, and thus this book will have geopolitical impacts on conflicts. Usually Nobel prizes are awarded for finding something new about some size in the (thank’s to me) proven-to-be infinite Reality – what about being the first one to prove that Reality in fact has infinitely much to it?
Path A (thinker & thought) and path C (Reality is 1 i.e. antidistinction) both lead us to conclude that there´s infinitely much to Reality because of the distinction-antidistinction-opposition.
It´s worthwhile pausing on a sentence like that like it was programming source-code because it contains unseeable concepts (distinction, antidistinction, their opposition) and the infinity of Reality.
If we confine on path B (nothingness) and the fact that we can ask questions about it, let´s ask:
- which laws of nature are inherent in nothingness? Which unavoidable truths are true because of the rational framework of nothingness? Which equations couldn´t
not
be true?
0=0 i.e. nothingness is itself should be true. Zero does not equal five nor does five equal two. We´ve thus found that mathematics is inherent to nothing i.e. in empty space a triangle is not a sphere and all other geometric truths hold true.
E=mc
2
is one of those true equations – Einstein´s most famous equation. All I need to know about this equation are the meaning of the five words:
energy
equals
mass
times
the speed of light
squared
.
“The speed of light squared” is a reference to spacetime because speed is distance (space) over time. This, in the equation mentioned spacetime, is connected to “energy equals mass” through the multiplication sign. “Energy equals mass” warrants the word “energymass” as a synonym for Existence/the universe/”all movement, shining etc. (verbs) and the things that move, shine (nouns)”.
There are so many different explanation-traditions for E=mc
2
. Usually the practical real-world application-tradition overlaps with the mathematical tradition – theoretical physicists cooperate with experimental physicists. All I know about those explanatory views/intellectual traditions is that space (three dimensions) and time obviously are connected, warranting the word spacetime. But I also know that mass is made into energy in nuclear power plants and energy is made into mass in particle accelerators – these technologies prove that all energy equals mass and vice versa, warranting the word energymass. Energymass feels a lot like spacetime and is found in the same E=mc
2
-equation as spacetime. Energymass can be symbolized as ∞ - infinite existence while spacetime and 0 are synonyms.
Energymass (existence, ∞) and spacetime (zero, nothing) (and equations) is all there is to the universe/Reality. All the fundamental parts – the empty framework with its laws of nature and energymass –are in the same E=mc
2
equation. There´s nothing more to the cosmos than energymass & spacetime together (along with equations) and all of those parts are represented in one equation.
Since E=mc
2
is true in nothingness (like 0=0 is), we´ve reached “mentioning existence (starting point C)” from starting point B (nothing).
E=mc
2
being true at the very core of nothingness (like 0=0 is) tethers energymass (existence) to the very core of the framework. Existence is thus necessary if there is nothing (path B summons path C).
Existence (energymass) and non-existence are the core components of our Reality. They are connected and mutually interdependent as is shown in E=mc
2
. They are the space between and “behind/in” objects and the objects themselves, and all rules governing them – there´s nothing more necessary for a full explanation of energymasspacetime/Reality.
The more detailed description, coming from path A´s infinity of Reality, is that there is infinitely much energymasspacetime: the framework is infinite (spacetime is infinite) and what fills it is infinite (energymass/existence is).
The three paths have merged: path A (I think & I am, distinction) led to path C (there´s more to Reality than can be represented due to distinction-antidistinction-opposition) and path B led to defining Reality as energymasspacetime and making existence tethered to nothingness.
In the above sentence we have the seeds to:
- the chronological explanation with its infinite time-line, our universe acceleratingly emptying (observed fact) and nothingness having (laws of nature like E=mc
2
) existence (∞) tethered to it.
The “why existence?”-question – existence exists tethered to non-existence and only under those circumstances does it make sense for existence to exist.
Defining Reality as energymasspacetime (with the footnote from path A: that it is infinite (size-wise and time-wise)) and since it´s one and unseeable (due to distinction-antidistinction opposition) calling it God or monotheism. If you do not worship the grandest (that of which all is part) then I don´t know what you are worshipping.
We don´t need any other concepts than those we´ve gotten from the universal starting points:
Infinity of Reality (infinitely small, infinitely large and infinitely much time)
Reality defined as energymasspacetime i.e. we exist in nothing and therefore it makes sense for us to exist; infinite nothingness and infinite creation.
The monotheistic nature of Reality: distinction (us)-antidistinction (it) being opposites, making it (Reality) inaccessible for representation (for the thinker & thought-realm) i.e. there´s more to Reality than any representation can validly claim to represent.
An infinite size-range & time-range (infinite spacetime as Reality is energymasspacetime and infinite) of E=mc
2
´s existence-nonexistence-duality (energymasspacetime) and distinction-antidistinction.
Infinite size-range; infinite time-range.
Of energymasspacetime (a synonym for Reality/God)
Distinction (separate entities; the infinitely many things) and anti-distinction (Reality is one) opposition (meaning it´s unintuitive but true – we didn´t evolve to consider “two simultaneous different ´events´ that co-exist/are the same” to be a valid reasoning).
The above three points stumble through the evolved mind´s obstacle course with its unseeabilities & abstract oppositions and is, taken as a whole, a full account for why we (and anything/Reality) exists.
An existential theory is a theory which explains any existing thing´s existence – the universally accepted existential theory has the 3 sub-ideas just listed. This makes it unintuitive/repulsive to our one-answer-seeking evolved logic, but all three sub-ideas are necessary and can´t be summarized into a smaller compartment than “infinite size & time with infinitely much spacetime (nothing) and infinitely much existence/energymass, and all of it contains distinction-antidistinction-opposition”.
How do we know that not something was left out? Let´s draw a size-time-diagram in which every coordinate is a location of energymasspacetime (a part of Reality) with infinity-symbols symbolizing infinite size and infinite time. Every object has some coordinate on this diagram and thus ever thing gets is explanation from this diagram.
All of this – three distinct starting points to paths which merge, the philosophy arising from and which is based on E=mc
2
, three sub-ideas that can´t be further summarized to the existential theory – all this makes for a very 21
st
century theory which´s unintuitiveness (rebellion against evolved logic´s norms) is the reason for why it wasn´t discovered until now. It will likely resemble a mental mess unless you rehearse it and subdue the pitfalls of evolved logic (like “opposites can´t both be true” or “the invisible is false”) using thorough argument.
All previous existential theories start from a single idea (like “God created…” or “the earth arose from an egg”) while my theory rests on three ideas and the curriculum teaching it has three starting points/paths.
The idea (existential theory), though, is true and is universal. It explains how, when the universe becomes nothing again (as it is observed to be becoming), path B shows that nothingness mentions existence and it would break laws of nature (would be absurd) if existene never came to be in a framework that mentions it in E=mc
2
. This coincides with the merging of paths A & C which state that the time-axis (Reality=energymasspace
time
) is infinite) is infinite. The conclusion being that there has been and will be infinitely many Big Bangs (which I´ll get a Nobel prize for discovering).
In this book I’ve explained that God (being a synonym for Reality) is an “infinite size-time-diagram of energymasspacetime at every coordinate and distinction-antidistinction-opposition”. It is a full-fledged theory of what constitutes Reality. Having understood this text makes it impossible to believe in a revelation-giving God that picks sides in wars like Trump’s God or ISIS’ God.<
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen, Sweden
The First Universal Text
Advancing civilzation to end religious conflict
To help & show solidarity toward soldiers...
They´re fighting religious wars where the assumption of a small minority calling themselves muslims is that God created earth & gave a violent revalation to prophet Muhammed...
If another theory is proposed to explain why Reality was created & how/why humans came to exist, then the violent revalation & holy war end.
The course which teaches this must be as a universal curriculum designed to maximally convince. It appeals both of the motivations of helping soldiers and to learning for learning’s sake (being an intellectual).
It has two starting points:
certain truth (agreement on that we think & we exist)
Nothing (which “doesn’t exist” or exists a-priori (without previous further necessary explanation)).
The fastest way to help soldiers using a universal all-convincing course is like listening to rap music: I’ll connect concepts in a sequence so fast you’ll:
miss alot the first time you isten
listen to it multiple times to catch something new every time
see that I use different ways to present the same set of concept
There are three groups of people:
the intellectuals whom learn for learning’s sake
those who take the moral argument of having solidarity with soldiers (that it’s more moral to drive a car after a bottle of vodka than to not save soldiers’ lives by teaching a course)
those who have to be schooled by an authority.
Have you asked something about:
what God is?
I can tell you everything about God.
First of all: there are two intellectual traditions: the unbound creativity of romanticism & cold rationality. If I were writing in the romantical tradition I would spend effort writing beautiful confusing metaphors and sagas – the opposite of which is like PowerPoint bulletpoints with facts & concepts about God. This is about seeking truth in the rational manner – analysis (thought-through argument) over spontaneous gambling.
I try to create a true argument that can be pumped out of propaganda-loud speakers at ISIS, Boko Haram, Al-Shabaan, Al-Qaida, the taliban etc.
If I can tell enough rationality about their God then their fighting-morality, group-loyalty, mission and cohesion disintegrates.
What I produce is kind of as learning-intensive as the theory of relativity, but if put on loud-speakers on the religious wars’ front-lines is more powerful than any cannon.
My canon that outperforms any cannon is a theory/understanding that can be taught in limitlessly many ways – I might have 5000 concepts and you can talk them in any sequence which gives X many courses that teach my theory/science/world-view.
Instead of teaching the science in a random order, can we derive from logic some starting points for the course (making the curriculum scientific/universal)? Yes – 2 starting points akin to that it is scientific/universal to teach history chronologically.
The two starting points are Nothingness and “I think & I am”.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
The first order of business is defining the starting points along the “Nothingness”-path & the “I think & I am” path.
Everyone spontaneously believes that he/she exists & that he/she thinks thoughts, but a man
figured this out
in the 1600s. He asked: “what in an allmighty demon would be fooling me in everything I can be fooled at/in?” What remains? Allmighty fooler on a mission to fool completely in everything.
He figured out “I exist” because there is a self necessary for a/that self to be fooled.
As a distinct line of reasoning he figured out that “being fooled is [thinking/a thought-process]”, in other words that thought exists as certainly as the self.
That is the starting point on the “I think & I exist”-path.
The starting point on the Nothingness-path is a starting point because no prior reason/justification is possible/necessary. What doesn’t exist need not be explained.
It is said that when the concept 0 was invented the ancients got afraid of it because out [energymass neurons]/brain cannot properly represent something emptier than neurons/brain. Nothingness is emptier than we see it as because we are made of and are using somethingness to represent/see/talk about Nothingness.
The next conclusion – the next step on a logical progression – along the ”I think & I am”-path is that there is distinction. There is distinction between thinker and thought. We listed two conclusions – right? – I think AND I exist. Distinction is the separation between thinker & thought. Distinction exists and is a legitimate word.
The conclusion following along the Nothingness-path is that there are laws of nature i.e. Nothingness is non-absurd. As an example: Nothingness would be absurd i.e. it is not true that a thing is not itself i.e. that 1 is not 1 . It’s not like 1=2 now, but now 1=3, and now 1=254. Laws of nature such as 1=1 are stable over time and do not change. Another law of nature that makes the universe non-absurd is that a triangle is not a sphere (geometric truths). Another law of nature, necessary for a rational cosmos, is E=mc
2
.
The next step along the “think & I am”-path is that the distinction exists in something (or nothing). There is one “that of which all is part”, called anti-distinction, in which distinction exists. Reality is one.
The next step along the “Nothingness - E=mc
2
”-path is that there is a law of nature that states, in order for the universe to be non-absurd, that: “if something, say E=m, is mentioned then it must also [exist/be summoned]”. It would be absurd for Nothingness to state “E=mc
2
” forever without E=m (energymass) ever existing.
Footnote: E=mc
2
– the summoning of energymass – is summoned in the smallest spaces simultaneously resulting in a
dense
Big Bang.
Sub-footnote: I drop Nobel prizes like they were growing on trees: the rationale for how to get from Nothingness to Something and the prediction that the Big Bang should be dense is valuable knowledge.
The next step along the “I think & I am”-path is that observation/representation is distinction. This is a repetition of the step where we said “distinction is a legitimate word i.e. there are
both
thinker AND thought”. We, as observers/representers, are in the distinction-realm – as opposed to the anti-distinction-realm – when we observe/represent/always. This means that we, due to distinction – anti-distinction – opposition, do not see [“that of which all is part”/Reality].
The next step in the Nothingness-path is that there is not just one size. There is a range of sizes – each with energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
) – large to small / small to large. Size & time are connected as spacetime. Everything/anything we know about has a size and a time.
The next step along the I think & I am –path is that, since we do not see Reality (that of which all is part) there is more to Reality than can be [known/distinctly made sense of/hypothesized]. Based on the conclusion that everything has a size & time, there must be more sizes & times than can be hypothesized.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
I switch between the two in a universal way.
I can’t do more universal than tasking the two starts of a universal course and intertwining the logical steps step by step.
I would like to show you two synonymous diagrams. The difference between them is in how time is represented. The difference is the same as between a rolled-out video-tape and a TV.
Imagine ten TV screens stacked in a column. Imagine that the topmost TV shows the largest size, the lowestmost TV shows the smallest size and there is a continuum of TVs/sizes between them.
The other synonymous diagram has size on the vertical axis, time on the horizontal axis and every coordinate represents all of the following:
- a size-time (every object has a size and a time)
- a sub-field of science
- a piece of energymasspacetime.
So far we’ve looked at three different concepts – the self, spacetime and anti-distinction – which, if you see them, look the same. The self can’t be seen because one is it, spacetime can’t be seen because it’s emptier than neurons can represent it as, and all of Reality (anti-distinction) can’t be seen because representation is distinction.
These three concepts are inter-connected, though: the self exists as neurons in spacetime, the self and spacetime exist in Reality. Reality is defined as all of energymasspacetime and the self exists as a location within a size-time.
Three unseeable concepts with connections between them.
The phrase “God created earth” is parallelled/rivalled by the phrase “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime and distinction-anti-distinction-opposition”. Both claim to be the explanation to why we exist.
The validity of an existential theory (a theory for why there is existence) is tested by whether it can predict a DNA-strand (and thus the evolution up to humans). If a theory predicts that there ought to be a DNA-strand (at some coordinate in the infinite size-time-diagram) the theory has the scientific predictive quality that a theory needs.
Again, keeping with the universal tradition of this text, just like with the “I think & I am” & “Nothingness” dual paths that I intertwined, the continuation of this book will be written as it is written by others aiming at writing something that can be derived from science (empty space in front of oneself) no matter where in our infinite universe one is located.
The two paths that we meet now are that “the ancients wrote about God/Reality” (how to make
religion make sense in a modern context) and “the existential theory”.
If you want to make the ancients’ concepts God and Soul make sense, God is just a synonym for Reality. I tend to ask religious people:
Is God:
a part within “that of which all is part”/Reality,
a synonym for “that of which all is part”/Reality, or
“beyond”/”outside” Reality (which doesn’t have an outside; anything “outside” is unreal)?
Obviously God has to stay real (there is no spacetime for Him to be located in “outside” energymasspacetime, and I put “outside” in quotes because energymasspacetime has no outside), and God cannot be smaller than (a part of) “that of which all is part”. Allah akbar / God is all-encompassing means there is nothing greater than Him, which is true about the word Reality (energymasspacetime / “that of which all is part”). We already said that “that of which all is part cannot be observed/represented” (meaning there is more to it than infinitely much hypothesizing/representing) and this is said about God too. We also know that Reality is one (not 2 or 0.75) and this is the meaning of the word monotheism. The three things we know about God/Reality – that it is one, that one cannot see it and that there’s nothing greater – are too many for the Reality-God-connection (as synonyms) to be coincidence. The ancients had access to the speculation about how we as selves are distinct and therefore Reality (the most all-encompassing), due to it being anti-distinction, is unobservable. God comes as infinite (1) size-time-axises of (2) energymasspacetime and (3) distinction-anti-distinction-opposition, because this three-idea theory predicts the dawn of a DNA-strand.
“That the self can’t be seen because one is it” is an analysis the ancients would’ve had access to too using their civilized survey of what is true about the unavoidable observer in every observation. This makes science warrant and want the word “soul” as a synonym for the “thinker” we looked at in “thinker & thought exist”.
This should’ve answered the question: “which parts of religion make sense in a modern context?”. God and Soul are useful concepts – and we know much more about both thanks to science than the ancients did. It shouldn’t come as a surprize that the scientific lense’s minimalistic interpretation of religion makes a lot of ritual and dogma unscientific i.e. not universal. I couldn’t possibly add any ritual to this book’s curriculum except that the size-time-diagram is a square so tattoo parlors should see a spike in people wanting that universal diagram tattooed on themselves, along with a triangle (with its tip originating from the center size/center of the square) representing evolution’s increasing complexity/fine-tuning and size of the DNA. It’s a 3D diagram – the square and the triangle being in two different dimensions.
Notice the square (size-time-diagram) and the triangle (evolution) which together are the existential theory, if you remember that E=mc
2
gave us that it is energymasspacetime and the opposition between distinction and anti-distinction. No matter your location in this infinite space (space of the human size is infinite because the size-range is infinite) you’d arrive at the same picture and text.
Wearing this on t-shirts is as universal of a ritual as we will get.
Let’s break down the existential theory’s (God’s) three ideas:
an infinite size-range (with infinite time because size and time are connected as spacetime). Take your body’s size as an example – it is because of the size larger than itself and the sizes smaller than itself. Sizes are because of one another. If the size-range is infinite then this gives infinitely many reasons for any size existing, in other words “the first cause” it retreating infinitely far into the small and large. This explains why a size-range such as our known range exists at all. This is pillar one of the three-pillar existential theory.
of energymasspacetime. Spacetime is emptier than our neurons can represent it as and human endevours are for evolutionary reasons meant to deal with energymass (existence). E=mc
2
is the equation where energymass is mentioned in the E=m-part and the speed of light squared (speed is space (distance) over time) mentions spacetime – in the same equation; they’re connected. This is a pillar of the existential theory because it explains why there can be something (at every size): it is intertwined (and exists in) Nothingness. In Nothing, Something.
distinction-anti-distinction-opposition i.e. the opposition between distinction (like separate observers) and anti-distinction (defined as “that one of which all is part”). We started this book with two paths: “I think & I am” (and distinction between them) and Nothingness (which is intertwined with Somethingness/energymass). Both are correct conclusions eventhough we need “both-and -thinking” to deal with the facts that Reality is both one and has distinction in it.
This three-pillared/three-idea existential theory rivals “God created the universe” and predicts that the Big Bang ought to begin as dense (because E=mc
2
is true in the smallest spaces) and end in dark energy/accelarating cosmis expansion i.e. that the universe becomes emptier until a region of Nothingness appears again – the universe hates a vacuum and since E=mc
2
is true in that vacuum, the vacuum cannot remain empty. This three-pillared theory predicts the dense beginning of the universe and the empty end of the universe – both the dense beginning and emptying future can be observed with telescopes. The theory also predicts, since it has an infinite size-range, that there should be a DNA-strand and thus evolution.
God thus can only remain as three possibilities:
God is a synonym for Reality (and thanks to this book, we know the three-pillared theory which goes into detail about God); God is “that of which all is part”, energymasspacetime.
God is an unnecessary assumption – the word God can be dropped out of our vocabularies because the theory works fine stand-alone. We don’t need a synonym for Reality since we do have the word Reality already, so we deny God because it comes with so much superstitious baggage.
God is added - just like Santa Claus, elfs, fairies and unicorns can be added – to the theory eventhough it doesn’t make sense to add it. There is no spacetime “outside” energymasspacetime and hence to place for a God to be; God cannot be separate/distinct from Reality without being unreal.
This book, by being universally written:
proves that space is infinite (because there is infinitely large) and thus other planets with human life should write the exact same book,
presents a universal idea in a near-universal way (distinction between the curriculum and the science itself),
advanced civilization / is the pinnacle of human civilization when it comes to the big questions like God, Soul and the existential theory,
can cause skisms within religious war-groups i.e. end war for religious reasons,
is a propaganda-weapon to be put on loud-speakers on the current wars’ front-lines.
I thought it fitting, to keep the curriculum universal, to add “what this book can do for humanity” right after the chapter about the existential theory. The next chapter will deal with evolution (beginning from a DNA-strand).
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen, Sweden
Author
yonis
Posted on
15/03/2017
15/03/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Collection 15 3 2017
Plato and Socrates, God and Darwin
Plato and Socrates were resurreced to have a conversation in the 21st century.
Plato: What´s the state of the world? Everything we do emits carbon and those emissions will raise the sea-levels to unbearable heights.
Socrates: What´s unbearable?
Plato: Many people will have to move and there´s no spare space to move to. They´ll be refugees fleeing from water.
God joined the conversation: But that´s 60 years into the future.
Plato: Another “state of the world”-thing is that oil is a limited resource and we´ll run out of if.
Socrates: But that´s also a century in the future – before that oil prices will rise causing increasing poverty.
Plato: So we´re at the pinnacle of the world regarding these two points: it´s like we´ve climbed a mountain and there´s never been and will never be as good a time as there is already and that there´ll be the coming century. But we´ve got millions of years left on the planet – how do we make the inevitable decline of global wealth more bearable, less destructive? The fall is coming – how do we dampen the blow? From the top of the mountain there´s only downhill to go.
God: I evolved you into a group-dwelling species and you form groups around nationhood, around language, around favorite football teams… Pretty much everything seems to be able to bind you humans together – which is another way of saying that you are bound apart from another group of anoter nation/language/football team. You, as seen throughout history and is seen today, find power in numbers and…
Plato: We fight wars – we fight them as groups, meaning something binds us together. The more serious the binding force the more outrageous the war. The larger the number of people that identify as some group the more war morale and power in numbers they experience.
Socrates: How do we, preparing for the coming downhill collapse of global wealth, make groups as tiny and the least bound together as possible? There are countless groups in the world – what could impact them all so that their bonds become more arbitrary to them?
Plato: Nationhood is already a terrible binder because everyone knows that it´s a human invention. Race was a big deal in Hitler´s era but the past 70 years has tought us that there is excellence in every race and travel/cosmopolitan cities has shown us that race – which is most notable in skin color – is a primitive and weak binder. Plus it´s unchangeable: if future wars are fought based on racial bonds – which sounds ridicilous – there´s nothing we can do to prevent people from grouping according to skin-color. If you want to fight a war you must have something more significant than race to dehumanize the other group, and it´s no longer possible to dehumanize based on racial differences because we´ve met people of every race and seen that the difference caused by race is too small to warrant dehumanization and war.
God: If race or nation were your strongest binders, they´d be as weak as can be and that´s good for the future wealth-collapse. You should want weak binders that people are indifferent to – that prevents large-scale wars.
Plato: The context that we´re in is of a coming decline of wealth – the sooner the better, actually, because every moment that passes releases more carbon dioxide and burns more oil. If we could all become as civilized as can be, which means to have group-bonds that won´t lead to large-scale war when the economy turns down, then we´d be as prepared as can be for the future downturn.
Socrates: What were the causes for the latest wars – the Afghanistan and Iraq/Syria wars – to escalate into as big as they were?
Plato: Hussein in Iraq wasn´t a civilized man – he did not follow the maxim “know thyself”. He had group bonds that made him want to enrich his people (over other people) based on a cult of personality.
God: He basically didn´t know himself in regards to that power-hungryness/ambition is infinite – he acted out of greed and out of a group-bond to the Iraqi people: he wasn´t a global citizen nor educated to know himself. He annexed a United Nations member, ridiculing the United Nations – setting a dangerous president which basically would´ve made a new international rule that says “you can annex your neighbours and no international entity will stop you”. Other nations seeing Hussein succeed might have done the same thing – causing a global set of “eat your weaker neighbour”-wars. And if he or his successor would have, in the coming 50 years, developed a nuclear bomb then the United Nations couldn´t have stopped his expansionist plans but would´ve had to agree to let him take whatever he wants. And like said: he wanted infinitely much because he didn´t understand his greed, and he was group-bound to a set of people instead of to everyone.
Plato: So if civilizing TV-programs or books would´ve reached out to Hussein, making him not group-bind as strongly as he did, he wouldn´t have killed others to enrich (what he thought was) his group. Celebrity and power (from his cult of personality-style state) got to his head. If he would´ve been more of a thinking person instead of reacting like an animal to the celebrity (and wanting to “give back to his fans”) he wouldn´t have been such an issue in the eyes of The World Police. The aftermath of the Iraq war was religiously bound groups.
Socrates: What about the Afghanistan war?
Plato: Afghanistan was harboring terrorists – the leaders there too felt power from the celebrity/cult of personality and you don´t need many people praising you to get that vibe of “we´re strong”. Why did they harbor terrorists? Religious bonds and the fact that any billion-dollar army looks impressive, triggering the emotion “we´re strong”, no matter how insignificant in comparison to USA´s army. Again a civilizing mission to that part of the world to educate people about themselves would´ve helped: to educate about the evolved emotional repertoire and how it gets triggered into feeling “we´re too strong to mess with” from basically anything modern. Plus their faith in the Quran – that God is on any Quran-reader´s side rather than the Christians´/Atheists´ side.
God: So your latest wars were basically a combination of uneducated people who didn´t have a clue about what evolution made the emotional repertoire into, and the derivatives of that such as that seeing 500 armed men gives the illusion of incomprehendable might no matter how trivial that army is compared to USA´s. Non-understanding of the emotional repertoire and what it is used to i.e. what it has been triggered by during millions of years. And a strong group-binding force specifically about me, God.
Plato: And this will not end until humanity combines its best information with its mass-communication media in a sufficient way to civilize everyone, and until the God-debate is finally settled. A little “know thyself”-civilizing education and an argument that completes the theory of God.
God: So if you don´t have a civilizing/educating mission through your TV-screens nor finish your knowledge about Me, the recent wars in Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan is what the future wars due to decline of the oil reservoirs and the sea-level rise will resemble.
Plato: Religion is the strongest changeable binding force – it makes wars become the scale of nations instead of local turf gang wars. If the world is impoverishing due to global warming and peak oil, religion is the factor that decides whether group-bonds i.e. armies are scaled as large as nations or the size of families.
God: Indeed – your various claims about me is what decides whether you´ll have a World War 3 clash of civilizations with collapsed nations adhering to what they call God´s law (like sharia), but if you get rid of all the false claims in religion then the inevitable coming decline will be bearably stable because the biggest army you can gather is not gathered with soldiers swearing oaths on holy books. The context is that of a coming decline but it is the debate about God that decides whether it´ll be with gargantuan strong group-bonds like those caused by religion, or more rational group bonds based on nation or cooperation over material goals.
Socrates: What if, in the aftermath of the Iraq war against Hussein, there wouldn´t have been religion (or at least multiple different religions)? Would the men that now made up ISIS have been able to organize and bind together into big groups? They had the idea that no modern nation resembles the kaliphate that the Quran demands – so without the Quran: would they have had an ideology/mission that they would´ve fought to accomplish? The Quran gave them both a “holy”/super-human group-bond based on a holy book which twists the reader´s prioritizes into accomplishing the holy mission of setting up sharia law in a kaliphate (and expanding that islam as much as possible i.e. world-domination). It´s impossible to imagine world events going as bad at they did – with large cities laid to ruin – without the debate about God being ongoing. If the debate had been finished it´s impossible to imagine the latest wars.
Plato: As long as the God-debate is unfinished, there´ll be holy-book-based group-bonds (meaning large numbers of people acting as one). Right now the secular armies of the world are keeping wars like this from erupting by military means, but that´s obviously not the best solution for the problems caused by the God-debate and its bonding abilities. Going forward, into the inevitable decline of increasing global poverty, its best to read about and keep up to date on the God-debate, adding to it if possible.
Socrates: Wasn´t Libya in a choice between western values and islamic values, with around 50% of the population on one side and 50% on the other, and because of the lack of a solution to the God-debate the idea “God want´s sharia law” was in the top ten causes for why the country destabilized? The debate could just as well have been between promiscuity vs. marriage, but because the God-debate isn´t settled one of the major forces that plunged the country into chaos was the belief that God had written the Quran. If it could´ve been proven that God definitely didn´t write the Quran, the civil war would´ve been less heated.
God: Future wars, the ones that inevitably will erupt from economic decline due to unpreventable forces like global warming or peak oil, can either be large-scale ones like those of the recent past or just crime and civil unrest like seen in many “stable” countries that don´t make the news because there´s no large-scale armed grouping. Large-scale and religion are like the two sides of a coin – they´re a pair. Bonding causes larger chaos and religion causes bonding. Whether you´ll have major wars or just civil unrest once the economic decline comes and is impossible to roll back depends on how well you handle the God-debate. The God-debate is the most major debate/military issue you can have in this pre-collapse era. If this debate is not held within a limited time-frame, you will have large-scale group-bonding based on religion and those wars will be too grand for letting the mind debate the abstract science that is the God-debate. In this era of relative calmness before the storm, the most important issue for you to debate is the big question: what is God? It´ll save millions of lives – as it would have if it had been completely debated before the Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan wars. The outcome won´t be that humans morph into angels – we´ll still have deaths during the coming and forever lasting impoverishment of humanity, but the chaos can be reduced thousand-fold if humanity accomplishes to civilize itself by using its mind to completely comprehend those major questions that make “religion” and “religious wars” into existing phenomena. And the time for engaging the God-debate it limited: once religious bonding makes things heat up into large scale conflict due to “us vs. them” group loyalties in a world in decline, it´ll be much harder to get a message – an abstract scientific one – across.
Chapter 2: Revelations
Darwin was resurrected and summoned to the conversation.
Darwin: Humans have always like revelations.
Socrates: What do you mean by “liked revelations”?
Darwin: There are eras of revelations. At the dawn of ape-man some warlord must have figured out that it boost fighting morale to have every commandment be divine rather than a choice by man. This warranted a priest or a priest-king who led the war as a commander. Those tribes who had mere men (and proclaimed that mere men made decisions) would´ve had a lower fighting morale than the tribe with divine revelation-commands in war. It was a simple con-artist tactic for the commander to say that his commands came from a divine source – and many propably saw through the scam – but even if it boosted morale just a little bit (and terrified the enemy tribe just a little bit in those superstitious early ape-man days) it was an evolutionary advantage. Soon all tribes adopted the same tactic because it gave evolutionary benefits in tribal wars. Another parallell theory which doesn´t contradict the first one is that parents wanted to raise their kids in as safe a mindset as possible, and thus invented that some invisible deity was the cause of earthquakes, disease, etc and should be worshipped. Or perhaps someone worshipped his ancestors and when asked “why?” he invented that they were divine – both to get more respect to himself and to have the other tribe-members worship those parents. A tool of war in the first theory, an explanation to everything mysterious (rather have an earthquake be a divine will than to have no theory about it whatsoever) or the want for celebrity and respect in the third theory. Gods are simply bound to exist at the dawn of language. People have always liked revelations. A very good book can be written by a totally unknown author or the same book can be written by the most famous author – it´s more likely to be considered worthier a book if it´s written by someone who already has celebrity and respect. The same goes for revelations: a revelation is something which´s author has celebrity and respect, making the revelation “seem better”/sell more. That´s why ad campaigns for cars or perfumes rent as respected of a person as is possible to advertise it. A revelation is to have a statement get respect because it was given by something super-human (a divinity). Something super-human (in eras where such superstitions were not scoffed at) as the author of some statement made more people buy into that statement – we respect (or respected when those things were still believed in) the super-human/divine and we respect their statements/revelations.
Plato: Then there´s another kind of revelation that got respect. Descartes who lived in the 1600s got respect, fame and was invited to live with the Queen of Sweden because he had gotten an idea which certainly told us something true. Revelations can either be con men´s statements like they were from ape-man and forward, or they can actually claim something which is verifyably true. Descartes, propably having his mind overcrowded by the masses of revelations that had accumulated to his time, asked: “what would be true if all my statements were false?”. What would remain if I tossed all my knowledge and ideas into the trash? Are we stuck with countless unverifyable statements, some contradicting eachother, not knowing which ones are true and which ones are not? Obviously not since statements about architecture are obviously true since they build houses, while contradictory statements do not. So Descartes dared to throw all his knowledge in the trash to see what remained. He found certain truth: that he exists – because even if he was wrong or was being fooled in everything he thought to be true, there´d still be a “he” there. He certainly exists no matter what. Same thing goes for thoughts: being wrong or being fooled is a thinking-process so even if he was wrong or was being fooled in everything he thought, there´d still be thought.
Socrates: So he figured out that he thinks and he exists.
God: These are not one statement – they are two.
Socrates: What does that mean?
God: I´ll tell you later – just agree with me that there is distinction between thinker and thought – that the statements are two. It´s building on certain truth, and it´s possible to build a whole… whatever it is that “saves the world” from the coming economic decline by having everyone build on certain truth until the God-debate is settled. Remembering “distinction” (between thinker and thought) will prevent the horror-scenario of large-scale future wars between people group-bound by religions, and instead – since everyone built a whole world-view on certain truth – have a more stable decline in the future. “Distinction” i.e. remembering that there are two certain truths (thinker and thought) is a step on the way toward a plan that will save humanity from destroying itself as much as it would if we didn´t build our world-views on certain truth.
Plato: So after an era of “revelation”-revelations invented by anyone for whatever purpose, coming from Darwin´s ape-man´s revelations, Descartes, in the 1600s, invented a revelation – certain truth: I think and I exist – which got him invited to the Queen of Sweden for the rest of his life. People have always liked revelations and even verifyable truth-claims like Descartes´ get respect.
God: I have set it as true that each one of you humans can verify in your own mind´s eye that you do certainly exist and that there certainly is thought – and thus there is distinction.
Darwin: Distinction is an abstract word. That two objects are separate/different from one another is one of those notions and ape-man never made into language – there was never the evolutionary need to talk about “distinction”. Yes: one could say that one banana is different from another (and one wants the bigger one), but to have Distinction exist stand-alone as a distinct notion is abstract thinking and we are not evolved to do that. For millions of years the caveman word for “distinction” was only used in a sentance – not stand-alone as in “distinction certainly exists because thinker and thought are both certain truths”.
Plato: This is one of those pitfalls of the mind – biases if you will – that repell some and attract others. Curiosity is the key for wiring one´s brain…
God: As I would like to have it wired. I am not so much for your evolved thinking – to comprehend me you have to think abstractly. However weird it feels, if you want true revelation – like the one you got from Descartes – you need curiosity (an eagerness for truth) to overcome various pitfalls of the mind / biases like the one where certain words should be used in a context (to differentiate one banana as distinct from another) – God wants you to, in order to prevent future large-scale wars, understand abstract truths like saying “distinction certainly exists and was concluded based on Descartes´ I think and I am -certain truth”. True revelations include abstractness.
Plato: Which is why Descartes got invited to the Queen of Sweden.
Socrates: Philosophy gives one revelation if revelation is defined as truth.
God: People have always liked God´s truth, whether it be ape-man´s false “truths” or Descartes´ certain truth.
Socrates: Isn´t “distinction” a wide concept used on even atoms being distinct from one another? My chair is distinct from my pillow which is distinct from my thinker and thought.
God: Indeed – the chinese called “distinction” “the ten thousand things” because 10 000 is about as many items as the mind can comprehend visually.
Darwin: The human brain evolved its size so much so that it can imagine 10 000 soldiers, but like Stalin said: one death is a tragedy, a million deaths is just a statistic. The chinese meant the abstraction “distinction” when they said “the ten thousand things” – they were speaking metaphorically of the very notion of distinction. They didn´t literally count 10 000 something – in their philosophy they called the entire world “the ten thousand things” which simply means that distinction exists. The chinese and Descartes proved the same point: it is God´s word that distinction is a legitimate concept in a world that is one as a whole.
Socrates: Is there an opposition between Reality being one (you´ve never heard anyone say “two Realities”) and there being multiple things (distinction)? The definition of Reality is that all things are part of it; the external world comes as a singular.
Plato: It is certainly possible to, in the mind´s eye, uphold the notion of a single Reality of which everything is part. Even the word “everything” is a single word referring to all distinct items/notions at once.
God: That of which all is part is one.
Darwin: This is again a pitfall of the mind: we evolved to consider events, memories and stories as that either, for example, that person was there or he was some other place – but he was not here and there at the same time. We evolved to rearrange matter for evolutionary benefits and never were we confronted with a scenario where two opposite scenarios were simultaneously true. An item was either here or there – not both places at once. Either a death had occurred or it hadn´t – not both cases simultaneously. Even in caveman days did we have a word for “the world” (like in the sentence: “the world is full of items”) – a single word to refer to all things at once.
God: And I did indeed make One Reality – not two or three, nor half of one. It can be counted: 1.
Darwin: So while the caveman days had words like “distinction” and “reality”…
Plato: And Reality can be defined as anti-distinction because it is a single word referring to a single Creation.
God: And in religious speech you have never heard priests say “God created Creations” with “creations” as plural.
Darwin: Cavemen used both the all-encompassing everything-containing notion “Reality”/”The world” in sentences like “it´s ONE nasty world” and they used the distinction-notion in sentectes like “the two bananas are distinct”, but it wasn´t until the past maybe 5000 years that both notions were taken out of contexts, analyzed independently and realized to be the opposites of one another. This is a pitfall of the mind, it took hundreds of thousands of years of using the words in contexts before someone took them out of contexts and opposed them to one another. We didn´t evolve to handle two true scenarios/cases simultaneously (but we did evolve to think of everything as scenarios/cases, which is why abstract thinking is so new).
Plato: There are many ways to say that there is both distinction and anti-distinction. One can use synonyms to them like separation vs. Reality; many vs. One. But “that of which all is part” – the most all-encompassing, One Reality, should always be capitalized when writing it because it is the only thing worth worshipping.
God: Am I it or am I part of it?
Plato: You are a synonym to it because no monotheism considers God a part of something larger; if God were a part of something larger than that larger should be the One which worship is directed toward. If one worships Reality then one worships something greater than God, if God is a part within a larger whole.
Socrates: Imagine two groups of worshippers and assume God is part of a larger whole called Reality (which is one because it is defined as “that of which all is part”): which group worships the greater? Which group worships God plus something more? God must be a synonym for Reality.
Plato: God is one – Reality is one. God is all-encompassing/”akbar” – Reality is all-encompassing/”akbar”.
Darwin: Eventhough we´ve now taken both distinction out of any “natural” context and defined Reality as one, we´re still not at the peak of complexity regarding how non-ape-like our thinking can get. If we pit the two notions we´re talking about against eachother, we´d call them distinction and anti-distinction (one is anti-distinction), and our evolved mind goes bananas when two opposites are true. But what´s more is that distinction happens in Reality; distinction happens in anti-distinction. The single One is divided up into many distinct pieces – but yet there is all the time only One (Reality is always a valid concept). So one of our two notions is not only the opposite of the other, it exists within or is the property of the other. Distinctiveness is the property that a single Reality upholds. As a student of evolution, thinking about the scenarios that never happened in the natural world, there never was a putting of two opposites within one another, both being abstract and out of any natural context like Reality and distinction are. We evolved to think in terms of stories, memories and scenarios – not in terms of opposites containing eachother both being abstract. Not only was our toolkit (our mind) not made for this job: it has an explicit bias and avoidance of having two true opposites (especially when they´re made of one another).
Socrates: Is this just a mental game to build a mental sculpture without conclusion?
God: No – it is revelation; you don´t like it because you evolved. It´s built on certain truth and it´s gotten quite complex: this revelation has expanded. But there is a punchline: you cannot see God. As Descartes said: you are distinct and thus opposites to Me because I am anti-distinction. You know for certain that you think – and when you think of me you are not entering anti-separation: you are just holding a distinct notion in front of you which is supposed to be anti-separation/Reality/God.
Plato: This is the dawn of monotheisms. Someone realized that by being distinct, as Descartes proved for each one of us that we are – observation is separation – we cannot see anti-distinction.
Darwin: Here too is a pitfall of the mind. The very sentence “I cannot see X” when talking about X as things the mind can summon in the mind´s eye, sounds like a contradiction to evolved ears. If you said X/Reality/anti-distinction then you assume that you are beholding it in your mind´s eye. But you are not! Separation is inherent in the very act of beholding something in the mind´s eye and we are trying to behold the opposite of separation. Does it get more complex than this? We built the sculpture – and it is all revelation because it goes step-by-step from certain truth – and now we can conclude that we, as distinct entities (observation is distinction) cannot see our finest, most recent conclusion even in the mind´s eye: we can´t see Reality.
Plato: Ah, that reminds me of my cave metaphor. I realized, about 2000 years ago when I was still alive, that our setting of words to things, our learned properties of tools, our differing opinions, our contradicting histories of things like who won a fight – all prove that our mental maps are not equal to the external “territory”. It´s like we´re chained to the wall of a cave and our vision sees only the shadows in the sunlight against the wall of the cave – we don´t see out the entrence of the cave, we only see the shadows. This realization that our mental representations of things are not the things themselves – that senses are distorting middlemen and so is the mind too – can be phrased as “the map is not the territory”.
God: No! The “distinction to anti-distinction opposition” that we built up to from certain truth and led us to the conclusion that as distinct entities/thinkers/observers we do not see “that of which all is part”/Reality/God/anti-
distinction, is not your 2000 year old conclusion about “the map is not the territory”. Plato, your discovery that you told through your cave-metaphor has been significant and repeated until the modern age, and will always be taught to children – it was a great discovery, but it´s not the birth of monotheism: it´s not the distinction vs. anti-distinction “we cannot see Reality”-thesis.
Plato: I know, the two just remind me of one another.
Darwin: The difference between them is that you don´t get monotheism out of knowing that your mental map is not “the territory”. Plato said, 2000 years ago through his cave metaphor, that “we interpret things”. It is a pitfall of the mind to not see this notion, but it makes perfect sense since we work (maximize evolutionary benefits) faster by our brains being wired to disregard that we work on interpretations of the world. In fact: it would´ve been a cumbersome non-benefitial mutation to have the brain, as it works, to always be reminded of that it is working on the world through a middleman i.e. it is interpreting. Why would we have evolved the knowledge that we´re interpreting instead of acting without middleman? Such things had to be invented and Plato was the first to have invented it 2000 years ago. We´re not born with that knowledge, it´s taught from generation to the next. Every animal just acts and no animal, except humans when they´re taught Platos discovery, has gotten evolutionary benefits from acknowledging Plato´s cave metaphor i.e. “the map is not the territory” i.e. there is a middleman (senses, interpretations, mental maps, knowledge).
God: But all of this is off-topic to the discussion you were having about not seeing Me. You have to distinguish between what we can call “distinction-antidistinction-
opposition” which is the sculpture we built logic-by-logic from certain truth, and Plato´s “the map is not the territory”-statement about the middleman. Having a middleman to our, for evolutionary reasons assumed to be direct contact with the world, is not the birthplace of monotheism. Talking about why One anti-distinct Reality – the only thing worth worshipping because it contains everything – cannot be seen because we are, as Descartes said, distinct (and thus opposite to anti-distinction), is the birthplace of monotheism. We left off, on our sculpture, at “distinction cannot see Reality” and then we got reminded of Plato´s “the map is not the territory”-discovery – but the two discoveries are different because “the map is not the territory” in no way utilizes the all-encompassing anti-distinction concept nor the certain-truth distinction-concept, nor does it lead to monotheism. Plato´s discovery is just an observation, taught forward as a metaphor, about our senses and interpretations of an external world which we gain information about.
Socrates: Why did God give us two so similar but different revelations?
God: Because one is simple and the other one is complex.
Darwin: Both are evolutionary pitfalls of the mind, but Platos´ contains just one pitfall: that we didn´t evolve to acknowledge any middleman. Plato acknowledged a middleman (i.e. our interpretive nature) and that´s all there was to it. In the teaching that saves the world from group-bonding once decline occurs is based on and builds upon certain truth. In it we´ve gotten past many pitfalls – not just one like in Plato´s discovery. Plato is fully understood if one acknowledges one evolutionary pitfall – one distinction between how we, due to evolution, naturally think and how we “ought to think”.
God: Ought to think means how I urge you to think – you get revelation – you find our more about me – by overcoming all pitfalls that evolution gave you. Plato´s finding gets you past one pitfall – and that´s good: you´ve found out more about me. But the reason he was the starter of philosophy and not the ender of all religious wars is because he didn´t build a sculpture made out of avoidances of pitfalls.
Socrates: I see that the story where Descartes, distinction and anti-distinction are involved is separate from Plato´s 2000 year old cave metaphor. I see the difference in complexity i.e. number of pitfalls when I compare the platonic cave-metaphor´s resemblance to that there are two equally legitimate truths – distinction and anti-distinction – and they exist atop of eachother i.e. simultaneously, but are opposites, and we humans are in one (distinction) in one way, but in anti-distinction (Reality) in another way. “We don´t see Reality” are words that slip of our tounge regarding both the platonic cave-metaphor and the… whatever it´s called: story that ends wars.
God: Logic about me; revelation confirmed by each and everyone individually and in groups; the truth rather than the conflict that causes bloodshed. Plato overcame one pitfall. In the story based on Descartes´ distinction and God being all-encompassing Reality which is one and can´t be represented we´ve gotten to the point that easily reminds humans of Plato´s cave metaphor: “I don´t see Reality/anti-distinction”, but we get side-tracked if we think Plato´s cave metaphor is the same as the opposition (and simultaneous intertwinedness) between distinction and anti-distinction; between ourselves and Reality. Humans associate too easily – when two different works of logic leads to the summary of a conclusion using the same phrase, we think that the two works of logic are the same – but they´re not and that´s the pitfall.
Plato: It´s akin to two pieces of art – paintings – both containing the same image of a bird. Just because one sentence is the same doesn´t mean its meaning is the same, or that the reasons for it are the same.
Socrates: Nor are the conclusions that stem from it the same.
Darwin: Too quick associations – even though the prelude to them was different and the way in which the sentence “I don´t see Reality” is meant is different – is a pitfall. For the story that ends religious wars it´s better to not even know Plato´s cave-metaphor. There must be a clear distinction in one´s mind between the platonic “I don´t see Reality” (because of middlemen i.e. the map-territory-distinction) and the more fundamental “I don´t see Reality” which is based on that both distinction and anti-distinction are legitimate but opposite concepts.
Socrates: Let´s say we´ve unlearned Plato´s cave-metaphor: why is our “I don´t see Reality” – because of distinction and anti-distinction – “more fundamental”?
God: Because it says something more thorough-going than the shallow-penetrating platonic statement. Guess how I, God, defined “see”?
Is this going to clarify things in religion, preventing grand clashes in the future? Religion scales up war – is the coming statement going to scale down those future wars?
God: Yes. The way I defined “see” or observer or hear or smell or taste or behold in your mind´s eye or comprehend or think about some notion, is to use the word “represent” to refer to all of these. Like in the sentence “the coffe cup represents the chair” it means that the coffee cup is a symbol – like a vision or a thought-up notion is – and it´s pointing toward the chair / it symbolizes the chair. Guess how vaguely I´ve defined “it´s pointing toward” and “it symbolizes”?
Plato: The human definition would involve humans or computers, because without humans nor computers there wouldn´t be anything capable of handeling a representation of a chair using a coffee cup. It´s subjective what represents what – humans decide what represents what at any one moment.
Socrates: Would there the coffee cup represent the chair if all humans and all computers would be removed?
God: Yes and no. Maybe. This shows how vaguely I´ve defined “represents”. If you exclude humans from the game, anything can randomly and arbitrarily represent (be a pointer to and a symbol of) anything. A human life is the very representation of things as mental objects – we haven´t seen a single thing without a neuron or two being parked as the symbol that refers to whatever external we are referring to.
Socrates: Our lives are that of representations; without them we´d be nothing – we´d be spider-brains brain-wise. Our favorite task is to represent. We humans might have firm beliefs about that the word “cow” means something that can give milk, and we´re repulsed by those who use the word “cow” to mean comb. That repulsion and insiting on a word represent what society agrees it should represent is what language is built of.
Darwin: We´d fall into pitfalls of the mind all the time is we weren´t strict about what is allowed to represent what and what is not allowed to represent what. If the ideas and words in our heads suddenly started becoming representours and representees, we would´ve gone crazy: our world-view wouldn´t make sense nor would we be able to speak coherently. Human strictness about how firmly or loosely something (an idea) represents something else (a visual object), or what is not allowed to represent what, was an evolutionary necessty for complex world-views/plans to evolve.
God: But back to the topic at hand, how do I, God, define “represent” – am I strict about which clusters or matter are allowed to represent which other clusters of matter? Would I allow a tiny region of empty space – part of Reality as it is – represent all the galaxies in the cosmos simultaneously?
Plato: Why not: the strictness in human representations is an evolved trait – we don´t go around abusing the gift by letting random things represent random things; to prove this: you´ve propably never heard of particularly a coffee cup representing a chair. We evolved to represent as to create mental maps which include evolved inventions like hierarchies (king vs. slave), personalities (is he a threat to me or not?), social bonds between various people (are the three of those protect eachother?) – but we also map less alive things like the level of calmness in the country which we live in, or the grand-scale context involving God i.e. that of which all is part is the umbrella under which all other maps reside – be they geographical, social, how to use tools, plans for the future, memories of the past.
Darwin: We have clear biases in our map-making; some things interest us while other things that we could possibly represent don´t interest us. Our representations are collected through biases.
Plato: Don´t computers also represent? The location A654 on the hard-drive might point to the data stored on the other side of the drive, which when interpreted through a image-viewing program is a family photo.
Socrates: Indeed – so you could say that if computers stay working and all humans die, then there´d still be representation because one area or item is only useful when being akin to a finger pointing to the representee. But what about the cup and the chair -example? A relationship of representing was summoned between them by a human simply stating that one represents the other. We could jot it down on paper and now the paper would be the keeper and communicator of that relationship of representation. A computer is just like a piece of paper in this regard – but so is the human brain: the human brain´s representing ability seems different from that of a piece of paper´s or a computer´s because we see evolutionary benefits (we see feeling) in our representations. Representation happens so fast to us – and our feelings tell us whether the connections or chronological sequence of representations following one another is an evolutionary benefit or its opposite (to be loved or feared). Anatomically, if you opened up the brain under a microscope, you´d see neurons as the ideas (representees and representors) and the “arms” (axons, dendrites) of the neuron – connecting it to other neurons – as the relationship called “representation” or association. If a complex visual stimulus (of you seeing a cow) is, through the microscope, observed to happen at the back of your brain, you´d see it connect to a much smaller “mind´s cow”-concept both as a linguistic item and an imagined mind´s eye visual item. How is this different from gluing a photograph of a cow on the same piece of paper onto which a 3-year-old has drawn “a cow”, and writing “a cow” as a third representor of the actual – and now we get to Plato´s map-territory-distinction – cow itself? There is a real cow on the meadow but our paper has three objects referring to it – just as our brain has three objects referring to it. If we´d brainstorm around the word “cow” on the paper, the paper would exactly resemble how our brain represents external phenomena like the cow.
God: So what differentiates you, human, from a computer or a piece of paper is that you bias your representations and seek through your representations in search for evolutionary benefits, is that right?
Plato: My intuition tells me that my world-map is more significant than the cow on the paper or the coffeecup determined to represent the chair.
Darwin: Our world-view is what our plans are made in; it is the house of our imaginary future and of our past; our mental map is the context to everything that happens. Whether God gave revelations to bronze-age men is either true or false, but it is the mental map i.e. our world-view that sets the context for what is possible and what is impossible. The future wars coming from the economic decline of the world will be religious wars if humanity does not steer away from its current path. Religious wars is all about “true or false”-claims about the context, about the house of our plans, about our world-view. Being of differing opinions on questions about the context and what it can and can´t do (for example: give revelations other than as human-found truths about God) is the bringer of large-scale war; if the context could be agreed upon by everyone – if we can start from Descartes´ certain truth and work our way up to having a context/world-view that explains everything – then we can ask where/if a revelation-giving side-in-war-choosing God fits in it. The context/world-view is what it is: so far we´ve gone from Descartes certain truth of I exist and thought exists, to claiming that the former warrants the idea “distinction”, then we talked about anti-distinction (that of which all is part / Reality / God (if God is as grand and thus as much worth worshipping as Reality).
Darwin: Then we talked about how human life is all representation, biased and emotional such.
God: That´s why you have a different intuition and relationship toward “representation” that I do. I´m very liberal when it comes to whom or what or when something starts and stops representing something else. I know that representing is very important for you humans, but I didn´t design the cosmos antropocentrically (with you as my dearest and your representations more worthwhile than any other phenomena). Representation to me means as much as dancing: God doesn´t dance. If you take great delight in it, nay – if your whole life all is it from beginning til end – then still I don´t care about it any more than the sudden, totally independent of humans noticing, pictures painting or computers storing, representation of a chair using a coffee cup. I´ll let the coffee cup represent the chair while at the same time having nothing represent nothing in the same scenario. I´ll both set representation as the relationship between the coffee cup and chair, and simultaneously set non-representation as the relationship. You can see my point if two strangers walk into the room never having thought about representation in the way we´re talking about it: I´ll ask them: does the coffee cup represent the chair? One person says yes and the other says no. Both are right and both are wrong. Representation is arbitrary. From a God´s eye point-of-view anything can represent anything, nothing can represent everything – anything you can imagine the word “represent” be used for is always simultaneously both active and inactive. That´s why you get difficulties in getting the world world to agree on a single dictionary definition for any one word: God didn´t make these (representation) rules, man created them to better be able to communicate. It´s a shared agreement amongst humans (and cats and dogs if they know their names). A word represents something but there is no universal language (God didn´t choose, say, arabic as The Language) meaning that representing itself is a human game which eases gaining evolutionary benefits. God couldn´t care less what we use to represent what and there definitely is no God-given representations available.
Socrates: We left off, in our philosophy, at the conclusion that “we don´t see (see meaning represent) Reality” because we are in the realm of distinctions while Reality is defined as that of which all is part i.e. anti-distinction. The distinction-antidistinction relationship is as follows: they are both legitimate words; they are opposites but both are true simultaneously and always; humans exist in both realms but as seers/representors in the distinction-realm (because observation is separation) and as non-seers/non-representers when trying to see/represent Reality. When we try to represent anti-distinction we must ask ourselves: how did God define “represent”/”see”. We concluded that although humans and other map-making animals put great importance on representations, God does not. God will let a coffee cup represent a chair and simultaneously not – the notion “represents” as a relationship between two objects is from God´s point of view there´s zero importance to what represents what: representation is an arbitrary relationship to God (if it can be called “a relationship” at all because it is us map-making humans that for evolutionary reasons insist on biasing our thoughts to have such relationships in the first place). The act of representing is 100% loosely (not strictly) defined from God´s point of view; representing is antropocentric – something humans do while the relationship “this represents that” both exists and doesn´t exist stand-alone from humans in nature.
God: I don´t care if a rock represents a tree right now – representations, like beauty is said to be, is in the eye of the beholder and eyeless things like Gods simply aren´t concerned with what humans have defined to represent what.
Socrates: So the smallest could represent the largest?
God: Why not – if you will it, it does. If you claim the representing is as you say, then the representing is as you say. I´ve defined the notion “represents” as loosely as can be – maximally loosely – it is a completely arbitrary human game to which I´ve set no rules.
Plato: Remember the part of the discourse when we concluded that “we don´t see/represent Reality” (and not because of the platonic cave-metaphor but because of the more fundamental opposition between distinction and anti-distinction)? Representation being defined by God as it is, combined with the statement “I don´t represent Reality (due to distinction-antidistinction-
opposition)” is…
God: Revelation – truth about Me. More holy than any holy book. The more complex (reaching a higher level of intelligence) the conclusion, the more distinct are you from the lower animals and the more detailed the sculpture/world-view you´re building becomes. You´re basically wiring your brain to become as I, God, make it if you think about me enough.
Plato: True – this pinnacle of intellectual civilization has, if space is infinite and evolution common, been reached on infinitely many planets before ours first though. If time is infinite then what we´re discussing is the apex of a mountain that every civilization in eternity climbs.
Darwin: The reason it´s new is because it´s hard. The reason it´s hard is because evolution gave us a toolkit (mind) that falls into pitfalls as soon as intellectual discourse doesn´t fit what cavemen were dealing with in their maps, plans etc – and trust me: their context/most all-encompassing map/world-view, even though they liked to have divinities with wills as causes for earthquakes, did not get to this point – coming from Certain Truth, avoiding tens of pitfalls that want to make us give up the whole search for truth and a universal mind/world-view.
Plato: Darwin, this world-view – because it is basically a “view of Reality/the world” albeit a very well organized, abstract one with pitfalls to be avoided – isn´t what our brain evolved to deal with as “the context under which our lives unfold”, is it? Yet all this abstractness, all this highly civilized talk like taking the word “represent” out of context and asking what God thinks about it, is indeed true.
Socrates: I´m not going to talk about this topic again nor remember any of this unless this discussion leads up to a conclusion, preferrably seeable, which explains (answers the questions why? and how?) anything and everything I might want to ask. It should be so full-fledged that pseudo-explanations like the religious ones pale in comparison. That´d defeat group-bonding and thus humanity can evade large-scale future wars.
God: Relax – we are not even half-way through the story / sequence of logical thoughts. The last thing we arrived at was that I don´t define “represents” and you, or a computer, or why not something that doesn´t even seem to do representing, represents one thing using another.
Socrates: “I represent Reality” is a true claim since “represents” could mean “see” and we do indeed see, so we represent – and what do we represent? A part of Reality. No-one would deny that they experience/represent everyday life. But, because of distinction-antidistinction-
opposition nothing can represent antidistinction because all representation is tethered to distinction. Distinction – having one thing have the relationship “I represent…” toward another thing – is a necessity for representation unless representation is so loosely defined by God that you don´t even need two things to do representation – maybe God´s opinion is that a thing can represent itself without any distinction present. That is a question for another day, so for now let´s consider humans: we do see something – we do experience/represent life – and there is distinction present in all human representations when we represent Reality/anti-distinction. But if, for human representations, distinction is unavoidable when claiming to represent the opposite of distinction, then the opposite of distinction – that of which all is part / Reality – cannot be represented in its anti-distinct nature.
Plato: Again we are back at the conclusion “I don´t see Reality” – and as you can see we don´t see everything as One: if we did, we wouldn´t see or know the difference between ourselves, a chair and a coffee cup. Human representations always have distinction in it like Descartes said when he gave us two certain truths instead of one: I think and – insert distinction here – I exist.
God: It is a universal truth – a law of nature, if you will – that nothing which sees can see anti-distinction. Reality is like a two-sided coin: on one side you have “the ten thousand things”/distinction and on the other side you have “that of which all is part”/the most all-encompassing singular anti-distinction. This is why humans can say “I don´t see Reality” – they mean one of the sides of the coin.
Plato: When we see the distinction-side of the coin – the only side which we can see – do we see all there is to Reality? I don´t know. But when we consider/represent as best we can the other side of the coin (antidistinction), we certainly do not see Reality.
God: If we focus on the distinction-side of the coin, you are unaware of the answer to the question: “is there more to Reality than can be represented?”. The answer can either be yes or no – maybe our distinct representations – or let´s say a coffeecup independent of humans – represent all there is to Reality. But on the other side of the coin (the anti-distinction-side) you get a clear answer to whether you see/represent all of Reality or not: no, you do not.
Plato: We, nor a coffee-cup, represents – eventhough represents is infinitely loosely defined – something but not Reality because Reality is anti-distinction by being that of which all is part. Certainly there is one Reality and certainly does nothing, despite the looseness of the definition of “represents”, represent that Reality.
God: I gave Reality the property of being unseeable/unrepresentable. Sure – the coin has another side which leaves the question: “can any representation manage to represent all of Reality?” an unclear answer: maybe what we see when we are distinct (as we always are) all of Reality. But the other side of the coin tells us that no representation – not even the coffeecup – is enough to represent Reality. Even in the thought-experiment that things are allowed to represent themselves – no distinction needed – there´d be at least two things (and thus not anti-distinction) if something (even Reality as a whole itself) would try to represent Reality as a whole.
Socrates: So God, through our reasoning/logic, gave us two questions: “can X represent Reality when Reality is considered to be its infinitely many parts (distinction)?” and “can X represent Reality when Reality is considered to be just one all-encompassing whole (anti-distinction)? The questions can be rephrased as: “is Reality infinite?” and the first question (when Reality is considered as distinct parts) leaves the question “is Reality infinite?” unanswered – we simply don´t know when we limit our information like this. But the second question gives a clear answer to the question “is Reality infinite?” because of two reasons: 1) we do not see/represent Reality eventhough we do experience life i.e. represent something. No matter how loose God considers representations to be, no representation represents “that of which all is part” because it is anti-distinction and representation tethers distinction to whatever is being represented. We do see some (distinction) but no representation represents anti-distinction which is synonymous to Reality; we do see something but we don´t see Reality (and not for the platonic-cave reason; instead the reason is the opposition between anti-distinction (the oneness of Reality) and distinction (which is inevitably used when representation occurs (and it occurs all the time according to God, regardless of humans)).
Plato: We got two questions from God and one premise: the premise was that representation is distinction. The first question was “do we see Reality (when the side of the coin that shows distinction is considered). The answer to this first question was that we don´t know whether we represent “all of it” or not (whether we represent “that of which all is part”/Reality or if we don´t). If we don´t, considering how loosely “represents” is defined by God, we still know that representation occurs i.e. the coffeecup can be said to represent that of which all is part: the coffee cup represents as much as is possibly allowed: I could claim that one notion of mine represents that of which all is part. This being the answer to the first question, it would be possible for Reality to be finite because I can claim to represent Reality using one notion. With this distinction-based question and answer Reality could be finite or it could be infinite; Reality could be considered to be represented if Reality is finite – we simply don´t know if Reality is finite or infinite when we´re looking at the “Reality is the ten thousand things / distinction”-side of the coin. The second question, “do we see Reality (when the side of the coin that shows anti-distinction is considered?”, has only one answer: no, we do not represent Reality because representation is distinction. Whatever we represent, whatever is being represented is not Reality when Reality is considered to be anti-distinction (because distinction is inherent in representations). Anti-distinction cannot be represented; we don´t represent Reality no matter how much or what we represent.
God: Reality comes as both anti-distinction and distinction. When you asked questions about the distinction-version of Reality you got the answer that you might represent it or you might not – it may be infinite or it may not be (if it is infinite it can´t be represented). When you asked questions about the anti-distinction version of Reality you got the answer that no matter the representation and no matter how loosely God has defined what representation means, representation cannot represent Reality because distinction is inherent in representation. You cannot represent Reality.
Plato: Representation is distinction like when Descartes said that the self that certainly exists is distinct from a notion/thought/idea/
representation (which certainly exists too). When Reality´s distinction-side is considered, you don´t know if all of Reality can be represented or not – but it´s an open possibility that a coffee cup or mental notion is a reference to “all of it”, and if that be the case then Reality must be finite. We got two questions that start out the same: “do we see Reality if Reality is…” 1) distinct entities, 2) a single all-encompassing whole. We obviously see distinct entities but we don´t know whether a notion or coffee cup, based on God´s definition of “represents”, can be said to represent Reality. If Reality would at this point in our logical discourse be known to be infinite, then nothing could represent it. But it is only when we ask “can something represent Reality when Reality is anti-distinction?” that we get the answer “representation is distinction i.e. you cannot represent Reality”, meaning that without a doubt Reality must be infinite because there is no way to represent it.
Darwin: It´s a pitfall of the mind that Reality has this dual nature of both being One and simultaneously being many distinct parts. This dual nature lets God pose two questions to us which both are asked in order to answer a third question, namely “is there infinitely much to Reality?”. If Reality would only be distinction and not at all anti-distinction then we´d get a “maybe – I don´t know”-answer to the questions “is Reality infinite?” and “can Reality be represented?”. But since the second question deals with Reality´s anti-distinction-nature, we get the answer that there is no way to represent it – and yet we talk about it! For logic to occur Reality must be infinite because our words obviously refer to it (represent it) but we know that we do not represent it because it is anti-distinction and words are distinction. Distinct words can, as we do in this very sentence, represent it (mind you how loosely God uses the word “represents”/”refers”) – and yet one claim holds true: that anti-distinction cannot be represented. We do represent and refer to something – and we try to make that something “that of which all is part” (a singular anti-distinction) – and we stand with two facts:
Plato: 1) That we do represent Reality because we are speaking about it, using notions like anti-distinction/”that of which all is part” to represent it in that very loose way in which God defined “represents” – and yet we know that the distinction-antidistinction-
opposition makes us unable to do what we just said we did: speak about / refer to / represent Reality. The only solution to this is that there is more to Reality than can be referred to / spoken about / represented. We do represent something (and we try to make that something “Reality”) with our words, yet we know from distinction-antidistinction-
opposition that there is a reason more fundamental than Plato´s cave metaphor which makes Reality incapable of being represented. We represent something (even with the word “Reality”) but we do not represent Reality. This is proof that there is infinitely much to Reality – when we speak about “that of which all is part” we are only speaking about part of it (no matter how much hypotheses we add to our representor).
Socrates: So the distinction-antidistinction-
opposition that makes representations of Reality impossible make it so because we are capable of representing something (of Reality) but, despite the looseness of God´s word “represents”, we are not referring to / representing all of Reality. No matter how much we refer to, we do not refer to Reality as a whole – and the only way this makes sense is by Reality being infinite.
Plato: When Reality´s distinction-side is considered, we don´t know if Reality is infinite or not because our representation (be it a word or a coffee cup) doesn´t yield the answer: “not even that representation, with not even that definition of the word ‘represents’, represents (all of) Reality”. But when considering our blindness in any of our representations when Reality´s anti-distinction-nature is considered, making a representation of Reality yields the answer: “by the distinct referring to the anti-distinct, the representation does not refer to Reality”, which answers “yes” on the question “is Reality infinite?” because we can play around infinitely much with God´s definition of “represents” and still none of our attempts represents Reality. The word “anti-distinction” represents Reality but since it simultaneously, due to distinction-antidistinction-
opposition, does not represent Reality, then Reality must be infinite. We do see something but we don´t see all of it, no matter how much we try to play around with the word “represents” or “refers to”.
Darwin: How much of a pitfall for the mind is that?! We ask the same question – “do I represent Reality?” – to both Reality´s distinct flipside of the coin and to Reality´s anti-distinct flipside of the coin. From the distinct side we can´t conclude anything about the infinity of Reality, but from the anti-distinct side we can conclude that Reality is infinite. We asked one question – “do I represent Reality?” – and based on the answers we were able to answer another question: “is Reality infinite?”. Yes it is because only the infinite cannot be represented (with God´s loose definition of “representation”/”reference to”). There are so many pitfalls of the mind regarding this that it boggles the mind – but new 21st century science can only exist if it goes through mental acrobatics to yield a goal like the answer “Reality is infinite (and we only represent part of the infinite)”.
God: Good job, humans! You´ve led an uninterrupted path from Certain Truth to that Reality is Infinite without making any assumptions along the way. What you have so far is True – your world-view has now, without a doubt, gotten the notion “infinite Reality”. Now the hard part of logic is over and only easy conclusions remain – in no time you´ll have a world-view that, based on the 100% certain methodology used so far, explains the creation of the world, the dawn of evolution, the human emotional repertoire etc. But as a reward for having found out that I, God, am infinite I´ll tell you a direct conclusion from the fact of infinity: there are infinitely many planets where the exact same mental acrobatics were done to prove the exact same point; in the now-proven-to-be infinite Reality there are infinitely many creatures just like you whom used the exact same sequence of logical steps, beginning from exactly the same “I think & I am”-starting point – and their brains, their “world-view” also added infinity to the grandest context in which everyone´s lives unfold. To be funny about it: you´re thinking like an alien (extraterrestrial, which there are infinitely many of because Reality is infinite). To be serious about it: your civilization just took a step in a universal direction – along God´s path – instead of into some rare arbitrary direction. You´ve just proven that there are infinitely many civilizations and you proved that by using certain truth plus logic – do you know how many other civilizations across infinite space have taken, are taking or will take the exact same direction (logic is light a flashlight that guides us through the dark into the right direction) using the exact same starting point (certain truth), prevented the exact same future horror-scenario (wars over lack of universal knowledge, or rather group-bonds based on non-universal holy books) and avoided/overcome the same darwinian pitfalls which were the reason why this science was invented so late in human history. Everyone likes a revelation – if you believe something came directly from God you are appropriate to respect it; the infinite Reality in which infinitely many aliens use the exact same sequence of thoughts (beginning from certain truth, noticing the pitfalls, etc until the infinity of Reality is proven) – the exact same textbook/curriculum. The fundamental ideas taught so far can be taught in any order, but only one or a few orders are the same orders that are chosen, based on logic, on the majority of alien civilizations. The language of the book will be different from planet to planet but the order of the ideas, the universal evolution-based pitfall warnings, the most essential elements of this book are true revelation if revelation is defined to be universal i.e. accessible to logic on any of the infinitely many planets.
Most planets, it can be reasonably assumed, appriciate science and thus let logic guide them in their shopping for a world-view that makes sense. No matter how much time out of infinitely much time passes, God has installed the same pitfalls, order or ideas, the same starting point etc etc – the same book in essence – in the very fabric of Reality. It is exactly what´s needed to both advance civilization and to prevent coming wars from having an element of holy book-based group-bonding which scales up the war. Everyone likes a revelation and what you´ve just read is the first truly holy book, the first world-view applicable to everyone (throughout an infinite universe), the first revelation by God choosing the order of ideas, where the pitfalls will be, what the starting point should be, etc.
Plato: We got from “I think and I am” to “distinction” to “all is part of a single Reality called anti-distinction” to asking questions about the representability of Reality and thus being able to ask what the answers to the representability-questions tell us about the extent/infinity of Reality. God, what´s the next step on this universal sequence? We want to wire our brain more in the way that you chose to be good for thinking animals. We want to be more like the majority of highly-civilized planets – to have the same ideas and the same associations and explanations between those ideas.
Socrates: I´m assuming the next idea to be presented won´t be a random choice from among many ideas, but will be the logically chosen by the path set by God in eternity, and thus the practicality on the majority of highly-civilized planets.
God: Reality is infinite, but do you know what is infinite about Reality? Every object or even region of empty space has two important parameters that determine its nature: size and time. Objects of a large size, say galaxies, are studied as a separate field of science – it´s its separate school of thought – compared to objects of a smaller size, say atoms. You can ask these two questions about any object: what is its size and where along a time-axis is it located? If you study every field of science – from cosmology to quantum physics, evolutionary psychology to the history of freedom – you´ll end up needing a wall, because a wall is a square and each and every piece of knowledge will fit on a square-shaped size-time-coordinate system.
Socrates: We´ve said that Reality is infinite. Now we´ve said that every thing has a size and a time and thus fits into a size-time-diagram. What exactly in or about Reality is it that is infinite, if not the size-axis and time-axis which as a square displays every object known to man. What else could be infinite if it´s not size and time that are infinite?
Plato: Size is just a way of saying “three dimensions, each dimension´s length being a particular number of centimeters”. Can one separate time from that? No: time is inherent in space and space is inherent in time. Time is called “the 4th dimension”. “Spacetime” is a single word referring to either a finite or infinite spacial region with either a finite or infinite length of time. Space (to which size is inherent) and time are united, yet on a square-shaped size-time-diagram the two are on axises perpendicular to one another. Drawing the diagram like so is the easiest – and thus universal i.e. favorite among God and the majority of aliens – way of getting, into a single picture, all that science has ever found or can hope to find when it comes to regions or objects. The footnote is that the two axises might look separate but are in reality a single spacetime – separating them is done for the cosmetic reason that then all that is known by science fits into a single square picture.
God: Guess how many highly-civilized planets in my infinite realm do indeed use the square to symbolize their knowledge of everything that has a size and time? The square – not the cube nor the sphere nor the triangle – is God´s visual. It is this square that is infinite from the conclusion that Reality is infinite. It can´t be so that only size or only time is infinite because the two are connected: a single spacetime. There is infinitely large and infinitely small (spaces) and there is infinitely much past and infinitely much future (time). The universal symbol for this – God´s drawing – is a square with infinity-symbols at the ends of each axis.
Plato: Even a kid knows the following but it is worth mentioning because it, even though obvious, is God´s truth and leads to something much more significant: sizes are because of one another; the smaller makes up the larger and the larger is the reason why the smaller can exist. We can call this “sizes justify one another”, the word “justify” meaning a “because”-relationship or a “is, for its existence, dependant on”-relationship. Now that we know that Reality is infinite and that everything science will ever find in Reality will fit on a wall (square), we´ll do like both aliens and God wants us to and proclaim that the size-axis and by extension the relationship between any two sizes is justification. When you ask the question: “why is there the object of X size? / how does object of X size work?” the answer inevitably will be – regardless of whether you´re asking about a galaxy or you are a medical doctor asking about an organ – to zoom in and zoom out: to look at the larger and the smaller.
God: Do you know why 99.999999% of alien planets with advanced civilizations, when they draw the size-axis on their wall, let the upward (roof) direction represent the larger and the down (floor) direction represent the smaller? It feels like a bit of a stretch to say it´s directly God´s truth / God´s way of representing time along a vertical axis. It turns out that humans tend to see more (larger things) when they lift their head, and when they bow their head way down they tend to be akin to zooming in on detail. It comes from how evolution shaped human anatomy – which is universal too, alike on all planets, and thus God´s system too. The telescopes looked upward and the microscopes downward. There´s no other reason to represent upward on the diagram as “larger” and downward as smaller – it is basically history (evolutionary such) that determines that all planets represent up as large.
Plato: What about the horizontal time axis? Some cultures read and write from left to right and others from right to left.
God: Left-right and right-left is totally arbitrary – there was no evolutionary benefit in reading in one direction over the other, and there´s nothing in God´s work from which one can derive that one of these directions is more universal than the other. Looking at all infinitely many highly-civilized planets, it´s 50/50 whether they represent future to the left or to the right – but they do represent time horizontally because size naturally occupies the perpendicular vertical axis.
Plato: God, here´s a riddle for you: guess why you become less necessary due to the justification-relationship between sizes? Why does the vertical axis diminish your significance, at least regarding the bronze-age view of you and the view of you that combatants that think you choose sides in wars have?
God: It used to be said that I was the cause for everything. But with Reality being infinite and Reality coming as a size-time-diagram, and the relationship that runs up-down and down-up the vertical “size” axis being justification, there is one part less mystery to the existence of the world when the size-axis is infinite, meaning justification as a relationship between sizes has infinite reach. Justification means “the answer to the question: why is there X?” – X is justified (by the smaller and the larger than X). If the answer for why there is the field of science called size X i.e. why there are objects of particular size-dependant characteristics found in size X, the answer is because of the larger than X and because of the smaller than X. If that relationship between sizes runs infinitely deep into the infinitely large and into the infinitely small, then there is always a reason for the reason for the reason … for the reason why there are X-sized objects. The same reasoning works on the entire known size-range (which runs from cosmology/the visible universe to quantum physics): there is infinitely much reason/justification as smaller sizes (below our vertical axis on our diagram) and the same applies for the larger sizes: the “first cause” (as if there were one) keeps retreating the further we look for it and it can withdraw into infinity (because Reality is infinite).
Darwin: Ever since the first question about cause and effect was asked (in ape-man days) the answering reply was that some willing divinity had wanted whatever was asked about to exist – even be it the entire known world. The same answer has been given countless times in modern days. It took quite a while of civilizational progress before the answer to “why is there a world that ranges from large to small and small to large? Why is there everything between cosmology and quantum-physics size-wise?” was answered based on the hitherto established conclusion that Reality is infinite and that all parts of Reality fit on a size-time-diagram: the reason for why the known size-range exists is the infinitely small and the infinitely large – “our” size-range is but a part of an infinite size-range where the relationship of justification observed between any two sizes in our sizerange also exists between any sizes in the infinite size-range. The domain name
www.sizerange.com
was available until 2017, meaning not many people plot all knowledge on a size-time-diagram on a wall and reason that the reason why there is the vertical (size) axis in the first place is because it is infinite (giving “infinite justification” as the reason, and a valid reason it is!).
God: From concluding that Reality is infinite, you concluded that – since everything about Reality fits on a size-time-diagram – then size must be infinite, which gives a reason why there is any one size or any one size-range.
Plato: From ape-man days until modern times the word “God” was the reason for everything and anything´s existence, but ever since the discovery of the size-range being infinite God has one less “creating the world”-task to do; no longer is mystery or a will needed to explain why all fields of science (say, between cosmology and quantum physics) exist: infinite justification; infinity-symbols on each axis on the size-time-diagram.
Darwin: For the entirety of our evolution, our mental maps have incorporated things like where to go to find water, whom one´s parents are… – geographical and social maps have been our only maps. More near the modern times our maps became multi-purpose tools able to learn how to read/write and use computers. Tool-use/technology-use is something different, though, than having the entire context in which one lives be (represented as) a square with infinity symbols in each corner, with infinite size-justification and infinite time-justification being secured truths about the square. We evolved to have our largest context within which we live our lives be a geographical or social map, or something like a nation or religion (with its rituals etc) be both the binding force between people and the – rather mysterious-feeling – context and cause for one´s existence. The “theory of the world”, the map which incorporated all smaller maps like geographical and social ones, used to be the nation state or the religion one belonged to. And now it´s supposed to change into the multi-detail thorough-reasoned universal size-time-diagram? Never has the largests of the contexts for our lives been so dependant on logical argument, many facts – and never before has one´s widest map which explains one´s existence been so universal meaning there is no “us vs. them” in it. It´s truly a cosmopolitan universal identity many times more complex than any old national/historical/religious context/map/identity. The upside of it is that having it as the context one lives in and which explains one´s existence is a step in a more advanced, more peaceful, more universal direction.
God: I put that map there to be found by anyone who uses rationality to go through the steps taken in this universal sequence of rational conclusions following one another. Whenever one has reasoned one´s way to that Reality is infinite, it follows that if size is infinite then that´s one pillar/foundation/idea in an existential theory. This hints that there is a theory which explains the time-axis too, and a theory for why there is something rather than nothing filling the infinite square size-time-diagram. Once one has all three pillars to the existential theory, that sculpture should predict the advent of a reproducing piece of mass such as a DNA-strand. Size being infinite doesn´t explain the chronology from the Big Bang to the emptying universe, nor does it explain why there is something rather than nothing. An infinite size-range explains a third of what´s needed for a complete existential theory, so for now we´re assuming there is a sensical chronology to the history of the Big Bang and an explanation how nothing can summon everything in the size-range. The existential theory (the theory that answers: “why do we exist?”) rests on three pillars out of which the infinity of the size-range is one. Assuming two pillars (a pillar is a foundational idea on which the answers to all above questions sits – once all three pillars are in place the entirety of our Context (where and why we live our lives) is understood. Having all three pillars derived logically – like we did the infinite size-range-pillar – will be the universal Theory of Everything.
Darwin: The change of one´s grandest context is going quickly: for millions of years it was one´s family/tribe, then it became one´s ruler/nation/religion, then we went through a few -isms which were trying to dominate the whole world – capitalism winning throughout most of the world, yesterday people´s grandest context was either their bronze-age religion based on unfounded beliefs, or an incomplete science. Today it is a three-pillared existential theory which completes science by answering the large-scale chronology of the infinite time-axis and why the size-range is filled rather than empty. These three pillars taken together then predicts a world – not our world in particular but first a reproducing shape (a DNA-strand) and further on a universal world-view with pitfalls for the mind. The Grand Contexts (which explained one´s life) of nation, religion or -ism all had one thing incommon: logic (in the theory/context) wasn´t a pitfall for the mind. It´s a paradigm-shift to identify as an entity in a context that makes sense, requires a lot of logic and that our brain wasn´t adapted for (and thus the logic has pitfalls for the mind).
God: But after the world undergoes this paradigm-shift from mysterious and/or simple Grand Contexts like nation or religion, there won´t be any more paradigm-shifts in one´s identity coming: logic is the final solution – the lasting identity. Guess why 99.999999% of the planets within my infinite space has this paradigm-shifting three-pillared existential theory/Grand Context-mental map? It´s because it only takes one person to invent/discover it, and then it will spread and spread – and once a human has learned the true existential theory/”location of one´s life in the grand scheme of things”, it´s impossible to revert back to some context-map that lacks pitfalls that Darwin explains but also lacks explanatory value and a scientific vibe. It´s inevitable for advancing civilizations to walk God´s path of rationality until the brain evolved for tribe/nation/religion re-wires itself to adapt to a map/grand context/existential theory/reason for its existence consisting of logic, universal God´s sequences of thoughts with pitfalls for the mind. For millions of years we´ve had no pitfalls for the mind in our grand context-maps, nor have we had thorough explanations to why we´re here. Still 90% of the world´s population believes in a pitfall-free dogma- and ritual-based grand contexts – and bind to groups based on them (which will be a problem once the world starts to decline) – with mystery instead of logic because of our natural Grand Context being tribe/nation/religion. 99.999999% of civilizations across infinite space has the scientific rational map despite all its pitfalls (that are due to evolution wanting tribe/nation/religion as the Grand Context). We have millions if not billions of years left to live on earth – of course the Grand Context/existential theory founded on certain truth and built by rationality will outlive bronze-age pseudo-explanations to why we exist. The current world religions offer no explanatory value but they satisfy the mind´s need for a Grand Context by speaking about mysteries not meant to be understood, or unprovable statements that contradict the three-pillared built-from-certain-truth map which, unlike religions, is universal instead of dangerously “us vs. them”-mentality-creating. We should start turning down the heaters to reduce global carbon emissions, but instead we´re building up for war because of the “us vs. them”-mentality-creating nature of bronze-age Grand Contexts that satisfy but don´t explain, that dictate and order around but offer no logic/rationality, that say “don´t understand that – it´s a mystery” instead of “here´s the explanation but your evolved mind will find it to be a pitfall”.
Plato: do you think that a person who is a fresh slate and given the two options – modern truth or bronze-age religion – and fully understood both options, would rather take the religious choice because it requires no thinking for yourself (instead it offers very clear rituals and dictates), contains mysteries (like a talking God who gives revelations such as “don´t eat pork”) instead of logic with logic´s inevitable pitfalls for the mind (such as that it´s hard to comprehend an infinite size-range being just one pillar out of three in an existential theory that deals with Big Bang and evolution)? Also, religions offer unfounded carrots at the end of the road: you get to heaven after you die.
Socrates: I think it´s hard to choose the untruth once you know the truth. But while your mind is firmly planted in untruth it´s certainly as comfortable as a con-man´s gentle voice. Truth and rationality demand you pause and verify based on your own logic; mystery can be as easily held onto as it is comforting that, say, one is being taken care of by a God which is not an infinite uncaring sizerange, but instead somekind of willing mind that interferes with his Creation through mysteries (which beg you do not even try to understand them, unlike logic which takes effort to comprehend). The battle between the paradigm-shifting three-pillared existential theory and the bronze-age religions reveal the grandest of all pitfalls for the mind: we are, due to having lived so for millions of years, inclined toward: getting a clear list of orders and rules to obey to get a mysterious pleasant gift at the end of the road; being told that the rationale through which Creation spawns is a mystery, yet satisfying one´s thirst for an answer that can bind the group together by having “…in 6 days.” as a to-be-remembered part of the creation story / existential theory. That covers rituals and dogmas. We´ve had language for hunderds of thousands of years and science for a few hundred years – most talk ever produced ordered people around (rituals) and gave a Grand Context which could unite a group and give an “us vs. them”-attitude (dogmas). Science and logic has lead to a world-view which lacks rituals, causes as much group-cohesion and “us vs. them”-mentality as knowing math, contains ideas and rationales which are pitfalls for the mind – tasks we are barely fit to accomplish, and we accomplish them uncomfortably (we´d prefer a mystery where we can be lazy and not even try to understand it). 99.9999999% of planets have this ritual-lacking pitfall-full logically exhausing non-mysterious “think for yourself” dogma-free Grand Context for their lives because the history of a planet is so very long – we are only halfway through our earth´s history. But we better hurry up in spreading the truth based on logic because religion causes large-scale grouping (“us vs. them”-mentalities in vast groups of people) which causes wars against other groups. These wars, with exceptions for Afghanistan, Syria, Iraq and Libya are rare now because of uninterrupted economic growth, but when an economic decline, global warming or peak oil makes people feel hopeless and futureless, they´ll use their holy book-based group-bond to cause trouble – and trouble is bigger when the group is big; religion has always been a tool for making the group as big as possible. When group-binding over holy books is gone, it´s safer to have an economic decline because humans won´t have a group-mentality build in as enormous a flocks of people as religion has group-mentality build in today. The only way to get rid of large-scale uniform groups i.e. religions is to appeal to people´s reasoning. Starting from certain truth, etc…
Plato: So until we get the rational intellectual tradition to take over in the world, we´ll propably have a slow simmer of smaller wars where group-bonding is based on different interpretations of holy books – even though the current refugee crysis from Syria/Iraq is the biggest flow of refugees in a century, it´s still small potatoes compared to what´s coming if global warming, peak oil or an economic crysis hits: then we´ll regret that we didn´t do everything in our power to prevent large-scale group-bonding because a large war is worse than a small war. Once cities start drowing because of sea-level rise, or oil prices rise due to us having burned all of it, people will be desperate to survive and we´ll see them bind together based on some principle / anything incommon – and I´m sure it will be religion.
Plato: What would the case be if everyone dropped religion and instead took everything they needed from the logical existential theory?
Socrates: Well, the italians wouldn´t fight the french. Nationhood is no longer a legitimate-enough binder. Family-ties, acuaintances and friends… It´ll be wars between two tiny neighbouring villages, but multiplied all-over the world.
Author
yonis
Posted on
15/03/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Plato and Socrates, God and Darwin
Posts navigation
Page
1
Page
2
…
Page
5
Next page
Search for:
Search
Recent Posts
Music for the sci-fi movie
New Trial By Fire
Dagbok/diary 1 april 2017
A
Music
Recent Comments
Dagbok/diary 1 april 2017 – Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
on
Action thriller scifi book
Archives
April 2017
March 2017
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
January 2016
Categories
Dagbok
Old
OldDagbok
The book + diagrams
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.org
Jonatan Mustonen – yonis1@gmail.com
Proudly powered by WordPress

Jonatan Mustonen – yonis1@gmail.com – Manuscript for sci-fi action thriller movie where the main character inputs science to the religiousphere
Skip to content
Jonatan Mustonen – yonis1@gmail.com
Manuscript for sci-fi action thriller movie where the main character inputs science to the religiousphere
Menu and widgets
Search for:
Recent Posts
1026
1024
1018
Join the dark side
1014
Recent Comments
Dagbok/diary 1 april 2017 – Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
on
Action thriller scifi book
Archives
April 2017
March 2017
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
January 2016
Categories
Dagbok
Most important posts
Old
OldDagbok
The book + diagrams
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.org
You have a certain truth which everyone in the whole world agrees upon. You think and you exist since if you were being fooled by an almighty demon you´d still both think and exist. Then there are two things i.e. distinction. All is part of a single reality which is anti-distinction, there are no separate parts: reality is one. If we put distinction on the left side of the paper and anti-distinction on the right side then (we) distinction cannot see that of which all is part because “to see” is “to represent” and then one uses something to refer to reality. There is nothing outside reality which can refer to reality but instead reality is defined as “that of which all is part” and then there is nothing that can refer to all of reality. What we see, for example, is just parts of reality. The hypotheses can be infinitely much so there is infinitely much to reality. Sizes and times, that is. In the existential theory (“why we exist”) there, thus, is an infinite size-range with time, energymass in spacetime (everything and nothing intertwined like in the E=mc2 equation – energy equals mass times, well – spacetime; multiplication is what unites energymass with spacetime). Then we have distinction and anti-distinction: separate things but all is part of a single reality. The existential theory with its three pillars, that is an infinite sizerange, energymasspacetime and distinction-anti-distinction-opposition, predicts that there should be a tiny piece of DNA which copies itself. When we have a tiny piece of DNA which copies itself we have three rules which come into play: that some survive and others die, that the number of copies you make has significance and that there is mutation (changes over generation-shifts). These three rules god said directly when the first copying/reproduction occurred. Then these single-celled organisms copy themselves for a while. Then there´s an organism which invents that it can inject its DNA into others´ cells – a virus. It then uses a new mechanism which takes advantage of the reproductive mechanism in other cells. This phenomenon of using others´ reproductive mechanism to make one´s own offspring we can call “power”. First came the three rules – survive, offspring and mutation – then some millions of years passed, then came the worth rule (hijack someone else´s reproductive system like viruses do). Rule number four came first later – it exploits rule number two (that the number of offspring has significance). Then we have viruses and “normal” organisms, and there´s an arms race between them: the viruses mutate and the only way for our organisms to win is for them to become multicellular and get an immune system. And how do you gain more mutations to the immune system? Well, you have two genders. So two-genderedness came from combating viruses – one mutates one´s immune system more. When we have two genders there is the difference that girls have one egg while the males have lots of sperm and then the guys start fighting each other to get the girls. Then it´s the largest one with the sharpest teeth that wins and this happens generation after generation and thus we get the dinosaurs. Among the dinosaurs there was the bond between mother and offspring and it evolves to involve group-members because if a group and an individualist end up in a conflict (fight over resources, females and such) the group wins because it fights as a group instead of as an individual. It was an evolutionary benefit to mutate the mother-offspring-bond to involve group-members. Then someone in the group (now we have some kind of wolves or dogs) mutated the up-down-axis which we have inside our heads: socioeconomic status, the hierarchy, power. He wanted to create a political system where he recruits some males to protect him and themselves from the slaves that were kept outside the flock – that is the same organization which one has in dogs, walruses and humans. First we evolved the mother-offspring-bond, then evolution created the up-down-axis where our body is someone on it and we want upwards in it. One can see it with cells – cells which in space are distributed so that you have up and down and you have a strong urge to gain uppwardness. The anatomy of power.
Posted on
19/04/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
Du har en säker sanning som alla i hela världen oavsett religion håller med om. Du tänker och du finns för om du skulle bli lurad av en allsmäktig demon så skulle du både tänka och finnas. Då finns det två saker alltså distinktion. Allt det är del av en enda verklighet som är anti-distinktion, det finns inga separata delar: verkligheten är en. Om vi lägger distinktion på vänster sida av pappret och anti-distinktion på höger sida så kan inte (vi) distinktion se det som allt är del av för att ”att se” är ”att representera” och då använder man någonting för att hänvisa till verkligheten. Det finns inget utanför verkligheten som kan hänvisa till verkligheten utan verkligheten är definerad som ”det som allt är del av” och då finns det ingenting som kan hänvisa till hela verkligheten. Det vi ser, t.ex., är bara delar av verkligheten. Hypoteserna kan vara oändligt mycket så det finns oändligt mycket till verkligheten. Storlekar och tid alltså. Det finns alltså i den existentiella teorin (”varför vi finns”) en oändlig storleksskala med tid, energimassa i rumtid (allting och ingenting är sammanflätade som i E=mc
2
ekvationen – energi är lika med massa gånger, tja – rumtid; gånger är alltså det som gör att det blir energimassa och rumtid tillsammans). Sedan har vi distinktion och anti-distinktion: separata saker men allt är del av en enda verklighet. Den existentiella teorin med dess tre pelare, alltså en oändlig storleksskala, energimassarumtid och distinktions-anti-distinktions-opposition, förutsäger att det borde finnas en liten bit DNA som kopierar sig. När vi har en liten bit DNA som kopierar sig så har vi tre regler som kommer in i spelet: att vissa överlever och andra dör, att antalet kopior du gör har betydelse och att det finns mutation (förändringar över generationer). De här tre reglerna sa gud direkt när den första kopieringen skedde. Sedan kopieras den här encelliga organismen ett tag. Sedan är det en organism som uppfinner att den kan injicera sitt DNA in i andras celler – ett virus. Den använder då en ny mekanism som tar nytta av den reproduktiva mekanismen i andra celler. Det här med att använda andras reproduktiva system för att skapa sin egna avkomma kan vi kalla ”makt”. Först kom de här tre reglerna – överleva, avkomma har betydelse & mutation – sedan gick det några miljoner år, sedan kom den här fjärde regeln (hijacka någon annans reproduktiva system såsom virus gör). Regel nummer fyra kommer först senare – den exploaterar regel nummer två (alltså att antalet avkomma har betydelse). Sedan har vi alltså virus och ”vanliga” organismer, och det finns en arms race mellan dem: virusen muterar och det enda sättet som våra organismer kan vinna på är att de blir multicellulära och skaffar ett immunsystem. Och hur skaffar man mer mutation till immunsystemet? Jo, man har två kön. Så tvåkönadhet kom från att bekämpa virus – man muterar immunsystemet mer. När vi har två kön så finns den här skillnaden mellan att tjejerna har ett ägg medan killarna ha massor med spermier och då börjar killarna slåss med varandra för att få tjejerna. Då är det den största med skarpast tänder som vinner och det sker generation efter generation alltså får vi dinosaurierna. Bland dinosaurierna fanns det här bandet mellan mor och avkomma och det evolverade till att involvera gruppmedlemmar för att om en grupp och en individualist hamnar i konflikt (bråk över resurser, kvinnor eller sådant) så vinner alltid gruppen för att de fightas som en grupp istället för som en individ. Det var en evolutionär fördel att mutera moder-avkomma-bandet till att involvera gruppmedlemmar. Sedan är det någon i gruppen (nu har vi någonslags vargar eller hundar) som muterat upp-och-ned-axeln som vi har i våra huvuden: socioekonomisk status, hierarkin, makt. Han ville skapa ett politiskt system där han rekryterar vissa män för att skydda honom och sig själva från slavarna som hölls utanför flocken – alltså samma organisation som man har i hundar, valrossar och människor. Först evolverade vi moder-avkomma-bandet, sedan evolverade vi den här upp-och-ned-axeln och vår kropp ligger någonstans på den och vi vill upp i den. Det kan man se med celler – celler som i rummet är distribuerade så att du har uppe och nere och du har en stark längtan efter uppåthet. Anatomin bakom makt.
Posted on
19/04/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
Om man inte är fri så är man en gående död: man kanske lever för de små sakerna i livet såsom jobb men man skulle inte dö för att golvet blir städat alltså saknar ens liv ett syfte. Då saknar man mänsklighet – de farligaste demonerna är de som tror de är mänskliga.
Kapitalismen bygger på innovation (att individer ska vara speciella). Resten av människorna är bara nyttiga om de jobbar eller är lyckliga. Det ekonomiska systemets syfte är att folk ska vara lyckliga, jobba eller vara innovatörer.
Vad är livets mening om man inte är lycklig, inte bidrar (jobbar) eller inte är innovatör.
Posted on
15/04/2017
15/04/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
Join the dark side
Balans mellan brottom (engagemang) & inte brottom (tristess).
Uppåtdroger tar bort tristessen & ger istället tidsbrist, nedåtdroger gör att man njuter av att tiden går långsamt. Tidsbrist eller att man vill att tiden stannar.
Kärlek: engagerande dialog eller mys dvs man vill att tiden stannar.
What´s the rush-engagemang & postorgasmiskt mys.
Posted on
15/04/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Join the dark side
Seija
Den empatilösa sadistiska/mobbande fångvaktaren förpestar tillvaron.
Jag skriver en novell om någon som slagits av en lås & dörr-fetisch.
Posted on
15/04/2017
Categories
Dagbok
Leave a comment
on
Humor Vetenskap Smalltalk Flirtning
Till läkaren/editorn:
Ibland gör jag olika saker. Min blogg är spretig då jag är multitalang dvs en person med många intressen dvs då jag inte dedikerat mig till ett enda syfte.
Vill ni läkare att jag (och min blogg) ska dedikera sig till ett enda syfte? Humor Vetenskap Smalltalk Flirtning
Annars är jag spretig.
Posted on
13/04/2017
Categories
Dagbok
Leave a comment
on Humor Vetenskap Smalltalk Flirtning
Varför blir jag negativ av abstrakt känslovalsoförmåga? Man ska söka sig kulturellt (till positivt tankesätt). Folk lärde varandra det.
Sci-fi-bok: De reseer till en annan planet och gör så att rymdvarelsegrottmännen bygger ett stenslott som på grottmänniskotiden. Vi borde resa till en planet som lever på medeltiden. De bygger stenslott för att lugna ned sig.
Ansvarstagandeanxiety
Beslutsfattningsångest
Status attraherar
Utlärning är status
Jag vill inte ha den typen av status förutom från tjejer
Folk gillar positiva människor. Det ger makt. Makt kan ge positivt tänkande som vinner över negativity bias (där negativa framtidsplaner finns i större antal). Abstrakt tänkande ger känslovalsoförmåga som antingen följer det mer evolutionärt basala negativity-bias eller det semi-kulturella “makt till positivt tänkande”. Detta ger olika personlighetstyper.
Vad jobbar du med? Människokommentator.
Posted on
12/04/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
Orsak & verkan
Dåtiden och framtiden har orsak-verkan-relation. Det stora och det lilla – det lilla och det stora – har orsak-verkan relation. Energimassa & rumtid (någonting & ingenting) har också orsak-verkan-relation gentemot varandra. Likaså har distinktion & anti-distinktion.
Posted on
10/04/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Orsak & verkan
Fame
John Lennon was singing “…imagine there´s no heaven…” and then some fool shot him coz the fool didn´t get Lennon´s attention. If a caveman tries to get the caveman king´s attention but gets none, he must feel like a slave (lowest in the hierarchy, wanting to overthrow the king).
Posted on
10/04/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Fame
Pain
Be tough: pick up the phase.
Be crisp like the pistol.
Shake your hips like a mongo
I´ve got a monkey on my back with his dick in my ass.
Posted on
09/04/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Pain
Posts navigation
Page
1
Page
2
…
Page
11
Next page
Proudly powered by WordPress

Jonatan Mustonen – yonis1@gmail.com – Manuscript for sci-fi action thriller movie where the main character inputs science to the religiousphere
Skip to content
Jonatan Mustonen – yonis1@gmail.com
Manuscript for sci-fi action thriller movie where the main character inputs science to the religiousphere
Menu and widgets
Search for:
Recent Posts
1026
1024
1018
Join the dark side
1014
Recent Comments
Dagbok/diary 1 april 2017 – Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
on
Action thriller scifi book
Archives
April 2017
March 2017
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
January 2016
Categories
Dagbok
Most important posts
Old
OldDagbok
The book + diagrams
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.org
You have a certain truth which everyone in the whole world agrees upon. You think and you exist since if you were being fooled by an almighty demon you´d still both think and exist. Then there are two things i.e. distinction. All is part of a single reality which is anti-distinction, there are no separate parts: reality is one. If we put distinction on the left side of the paper and anti-distinction on the right side then (we) distinction cannot see that of which all is part because “to see” is “to represent” and then one uses something to refer to reality. There is nothing outside reality which can refer to reality but instead reality is defined as “that of which all is part” and then there is nothing that can refer to all of reality. What we see, for example, is just parts of reality. The hypotheses can be infinitely much so there is infinitely much to reality. Sizes and times, that is. In the existential theory (“why we exist”) there, thus, is an infinite size-range with time, energymass in spacetime (everything and nothing intertwined like in the E=mc2 equation – energy equals mass times, well – spacetime; multiplication is what unites energymass with spacetime). Then we have distinction and anti-distinction: separate things but all is part of a single reality. The existential theory with its three pillars, that is an infinite sizerange, energymasspacetime and distinction-anti-distinction-opposition, predicts that there should be a tiny piece of DNA which copies itself. When we have a tiny piece of DNA which copies itself we have three rules which come into play: that some survive and others die, that the number of copies you make has significance and that there is mutation (changes over generation-shifts). These three rules god said directly when the first copying/reproduction occurred. Then these single-celled organisms copy themselves for a while. Then there´s an organism which invents that it can inject its DNA into others´ cells – a virus. It then uses a new mechanism which takes advantage of the reproductive mechanism in other cells. This phenomenon of using others´ reproductive mechanism to make one´s own offspring we can call “power”. First came the three rules – survive, offspring and mutation – then some millions of years passed, then came the worth rule (hijack someone else´s reproductive system like viruses do). Rule number four came first later – it exploits rule number two (that the number of offspring has significance). Then we have viruses and “normal” organisms, and there´s an arms race between them: the viruses mutate and the only way for our organisms to win is for them to become multicellular and get an immune system. And how do you gain more mutations to the immune system? Well, you have two genders. So two-genderedness came from combating viruses – one mutates one´s immune system more. When we have two genders there is the difference that girls have one egg while the males have lots of sperm and then the guys start fighting each other to get the girls. Then it´s the largest one with the sharpest teeth that wins and this happens generation after generation and thus we get the dinosaurs. Among the dinosaurs there was the bond between mother and offspring and it evolves to involve group-members because if a group and an individualist end up in a conflict (fight over resources, females and such) the group wins because it fights as a group instead of as an individual. It was an evolutionary benefit to mutate the mother-offspring-bond to involve group-members. Then someone in the group (now we have some kind of wolves or dogs) mutated the up-down-axis which we have inside our heads: socioeconomic status, the hierarchy, power. He wanted to create a political system where he recruits some males to protect him and themselves from the slaves that were kept outside the flock – that is the same organization which one has in dogs, walruses and humans. First we evolved the mother-offspring-bond, then evolution created the up-down-axis where our body is someone on it and we want upwards in it. One can see it with cells – cells which in space are distributed so that you have up and down and you have a strong urge to gain uppwardness. The anatomy of power.
Posted on
19/04/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
Du har en säker sanning som alla i hela världen oavsett religion håller med om. Du tänker och du finns för om du skulle bli lurad av en allsmäktig demon så skulle du både tänka och finnas. Då finns det två saker alltså distinktion. Allt det är del av en enda verklighet som är anti-distinktion, det finns inga separata delar: verkligheten är en. Om vi lägger distinktion på vänster sida av pappret och anti-distinktion på höger sida så kan inte (vi) distinktion se det som allt är del av för att ”att se” är ”att representera” och då använder man någonting för att hänvisa till verkligheten. Det finns inget utanför verkligheten som kan hänvisa till verkligheten utan verkligheten är definerad som ”det som allt är del av” och då finns det ingenting som kan hänvisa till hela verkligheten. Det vi ser, t.ex., är bara delar av verkligheten. Hypoteserna kan vara oändligt mycket så det finns oändligt mycket till verkligheten. Storlekar och tid alltså. Det finns alltså i den existentiella teorin (”varför vi finns”) en oändlig storleksskala med tid, energimassa i rumtid (allting och ingenting är sammanflätade som i E=mc
2
ekvationen – energi är lika med massa gånger, tja – rumtid; gånger är alltså det som gör att det blir energimassa och rumtid tillsammans). Sedan har vi distinktion och anti-distinktion: separata saker men allt är del av en enda verklighet. Den existentiella teorin med dess tre pelare, alltså en oändlig storleksskala, energimassarumtid och distinktions-anti-distinktions-opposition, förutsäger att det borde finnas en liten bit DNA som kopierar sig. När vi har en liten bit DNA som kopierar sig så har vi tre regler som kommer in i spelet: att vissa överlever och andra dör, att antalet kopior du gör har betydelse och att det finns mutation (förändringar över generationer). De här tre reglerna sa gud direkt när den första kopieringen skedde. Sedan kopieras den här encelliga organismen ett tag. Sedan är det en organism som uppfinner att den kan injicera sitt DNA in i andras celler – ett virus. Den använder då en ny mekanism som tar nytta av den reproduktiva mekanismen i andra celler. Det här med att använda andras reproduktiva system för att skapa sin egna avkomma kan vi kalla ”makt”. Först kom de här tre reglerna – överleva, avkomma har betydelse & mutation – sedan gick det några miljoner år, sedan kom den här fjärde regeln (hijacka någon annans reproduktiva system såsom virus gör). Regel nummer fyra kommer först senare – den exploaterar regel nummer två (alltså att antalet avkomma har betydelse). Sedan har vi alltså virus och ”vanliga” organismer, och det finns en arms race mellan dem: virusen muterar och det enda sättet som våra organismer kan vinna på är att de blir multicellulära och skaffar ett immunsystem. Och hur skaffar man mer mutation till immunsystemet? Jo, man har två kön. Så tvåkönadhet kom från att bekämpa virus – man muterar immunsystemet mer. När vi har två kön så finns den här skillnaden mellan att tjejerna har ett ägg medan killarna ha massor med spermier och då börjar killarna slåss med varandra för att få tjejerna. Då är det den största med skarpast tänder som vinner och det sker generation efter generation alltså får vi dinosaurierna. Bland dinosaurierna fanns det här bandet mellan mor och avkomma och det evolverade till att involvera gruppmedlemmar för att om en grupp och en individualist hamnar i konflikt (bråk över resurser, kvinnor eller sådant) så vinner alltid gruppen för att de fightas som en grupp istället för som en individ. Det var en evolutionär fördel att mutera moder-avkomma-bandet till att involvera gruppmedlemmar. Sedan är det någon i gruppen (nu har vi någonslags vargar eller hundar) som muterat upp-och-ned-axeln som vi har i våra huvuden: socioekonomisk status, hierarkin, makt. Han ville skapa ett politiskt system där han rekryterar vissa män för att skydda honom och sig själva från slavarna som hölls utanför flocken – alltså samma organisation som man har i hundar, valrossar och människor. Först evolverade vi moder-avkomma-bandet, sedan evolverade vi den här upp-och-ned-axeln och vår kropp ligger någonstans på den och vi vill upp i den. Det kan man se med celler – celler som i rummet är distribuerade så att du har uppe och nere och du har en stark längtan efter uppåthet. Anatomin bakom makt.
Posted on
19/04/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
Om man inte är fri så är man en gående död: man kanske lever för de små sakerna i livet såsom jobb men man skulle inte dö för att golvet blir städat alltså saknar ens liv ett syfte. Då saknar man mänsklighet – de farligaste demonerna är de som tror de är mänskliga.
Kapitalismen bygger på innovation (att individer ska vara speciella). Resten av människorna är bara nyttiga om de jobbar eller är lyckliga. Det ekonomiska systemets syfte är att folk ska vara lyckliga, jobba eller vara innovatörer.
Vad är livets mening om man inte är lycklig, inte bidrar (jobbar) eller inte är innovatör.
Posted on
15/04/2017
15/04/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
Join the dark side
Balans mellan brottom (engagemang) & inte brottom (tristess).
Uppåtdroger tar bort tristessen & ger istället tidsbrist, nedåtdroger gör att man njuter av att tiden går långsamt. Tidsbrist eller att man vill att tiden stannar.
Kärlek: engagerande dialog eller mys dvs man vill att tiden stannar.
What´s the rush-engagemang & postorgasmiskt mys.
Posted on
15/04/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Join the dark side
Seija
Den empatilösa sadistiska/mobbande fångvaktaren förpestar tillvaron.
Jag skriver en novell om någon som slagits av en lås & dörr-fetisch.
Posted on
15/04/2017
Categories
Dagbok
Leave a comment
on
Humor Vetenskap Smalltalk Flirtning
Till läkaren/editorn:
Ibland gör jag olika saker. Min blogg är spretig då jag är multitalang dvs en person med många intressen dvs då jag inte dedikerat mig till ett enda syfte.
Vill ni läkare att jag (och min blogg) ska dedikera sig till ett enda syfte? Humor Vetenskap Smalltalk Flirtning
Annars är jag spretig.
Posted on
13/04/2017
Categories
Dagbok
Leave a comment
on Humor Vetenskap Smalltalk Flirtning
Varför blir jag negativ av abstrakt känslovalsoförmåga? Man ska söka sig kulturellt (till positivt tankesätt). Folk lärde varandra det.
Sci-fi-bok: De reseer till en annan planet och gör så att rymdvarelsegrottmännen bygger ett stenslott som på grottmänniskotiden. Vi borde resa till en planet som lever på medeltiden. De bygger stenslott för att lugna ned sig.
Ansvarstagandeanxiety
Beslutsfattningsångest
Status attraherar
Utlärning är status
Jag vill inte ha den typen av status förutom från tjejer
Folk gillar positiva människor. Det ger makt. Makt kan ge positivt tänkande som vinner över negativity bias (där negativa framtidsplaner finns i större antal). Abstrakt tänkande ger känslovalsoförmåga som antingen följer det mer evolutionärt basala negativity-bias eller det semi-kulturella “makt till positivt tänkande”. Detta ger olika personlighetstyper.
Vad jobbar du med? Människokommentator.
Posted on
12/04/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
Orsak & verkan
Dåtiden och framtiden har orsak-verkan-relation. Det stora och det lilla – det lilla och det stora – har orsak-verkan relation. Energimassa & rumtid (någonting & ingenting) har också orsak-verkan-relation gentemot varandra. Likaså har distinktion & anti-distinktion.
Posted on
10/04/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Orsak & verkan
Fame
John Lennon was singing “…imagine there´s no heaven…” and then some fool shot him coz the fool didn´t get Lennon´s attention. If a caveman tries to get the caveman king´s attention but gets none, he must feel like a slave (lowest in the hierarchy, wanting to overthrow the king).
Posted on
10/04/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Fame
Pain
Be tough: pick up the phase.
Be crisp like the pistol.
Shake your hips like a mongo
I´ve got a monkey on my back with his dick in my ass.
Posted on
09/04/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Pain
Posts navigation
Page
1
Page
2
…
Page
11
Next page
Proudly powered by WordPress

Jonatan Mustonen – yonis1@gmail.com – A generalization of all existing science – the proof for that religion is unnecessary (like an appendix)
Skip to content
Jonatan Mustonen – yonis1@gmail.com
A generalization of all existing science – the proof for that religion is unnecessary (like an appendix)
Menu and widgets
Search for:
Recent Posts
imp 2017 complete semi-book
1112
1101
Audios
1088
Recent Comments
Dagbok/diary 1 april 2017 – Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
on
Action thriller scifi book
Archives
May 2017
April 2017
March 2017
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
January 2016
Categories
Dagbok
Most important posts
Old
OldDagbok
The book + diagrams
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.org
imp 2017 complete semi-book
The text begins with certain truth, goes on to explaining why something exists rather than nothing (the existential theory – why we exist), and then goes on to evolutionary theory which is predicted by the existential theory and explains everday occurances.
You know for certain that you think and that you exist because even if an almighty demon was fooling you in everything you can possibly be fooled in, the fooling itself is a thought-process and therefore you know that thought exists (you think), and for you to be fooled you have to exist and therefore you know “I exist”. Being fooled is thinking and a thinker is necessary for there to be someone to be fooled. So you know: no matter what, you think and you exist. Those are two things, right? They´re both part of the same brain and the thought-process can become the analytical toolkit/thinker, but still we recognize that there are distinct entities – there is distinction. This can also be called separation. What is distinction´s opposite, anti-distinction? It´s one reality; that of which all is part; it´s one and reality´s definition in the dictionary is that all is part of it. If we write distinction (thinker and thought) on the left side of the paper and anti-distinction (reality; that of which all is part; one) on the right side of the paper – can the left side see the right side? No, because of opposition between distinction and anti-distinction. Because of there always being an observer (a thinker) and thus distinction in every observation and thus anti-distinction can´t be represented/seen.
The brain evolved to deal with natural occurances – there was never an event in history where something invisible was to be contemplated and dealt with. Thus we seem to assume that the thought-process went wrong when we say that distinction/us can´t see anti-distinction/reality. But the thought-process didn´t go wrong: all that it means is that there is more to reality than can be represented. Regardless of how vaguely “represents” is defined, say a coffee cup – regardless of brains being involved – is assumed to try to represent that of which all is part, then anti-dinstinction – distinction – opposition (the opposition between distinction and it´s opposite) makes the representation incorrect. We can ask if there in an anti-distinct “thing” is a maximum size and thus distinction? No. Likewise, another proof for that the size-range is infinite is that we do sense something (our everyday world) and can make hypotheses ad infinitum, and yet nothing represents ALL OF reality. Reality i.e. size-time thus is infinite.
The infinite size-range is one pillar in the existential theory. Another pillar is energymass and spacetime being opposites but intertwined as in E=mc2 (where c2 refers to a speed which is space over time: spacetime). Multiplication joins energymass together with spacetime; nothing together with something/everything; existence together with non-existence. Why is there existence the shape of my body? Without going into the historical answer, one can explain it by saying that the body is something in (intertwined with) nothing, of a size in an infinite size-range (where the relationship between any two sizes (or objects of two sizes) is that they make sense of i.e. Justify one another). Then there too, as a third pillar, is distinction-anti-distinction-opposition i.e. We live in a single (not plural) reality but we see distinct/separate entities such as thinker and thought.
Speaking of spacetime, spacetime is the logical starting point for the time-based existential theory. Nothingness (empty space) need to prior justification nor reason to exist, because it doesn´t exist. In it, however, laws of nature are true i.e. It is not irrational / anti-logical, and among the many laws of nature there are those, including E=mc2, which mention energymass. Could energymass be “mentioned” without it existing? If yes, it would be absurd / anti-logical. Why would reality mention things that never exist? But since laws of nature are firm and because of our rule “what is mentioned must exist or must be summoned” we get, wherever (in the smallest spaces) that E=mc2 is mentioned, existence and thus dense existence: a big bang. The fact that galaxies are speeding away acceleratingly from one another leads to nothingness in the future, and with the middleman “laws of nature” again energymass is summoned as dense as can be. No time-delay between nothingness – laws of nature – energymass but as soon as a bordered (by event horizons which are determined by the finite speed of light) region becomes nothingness, a big bang occurs and eventually becomes nothingness bordered by event horizons again. This is the time-wise description of why energymass (which exists intertwined with spacetime as in E=mc2) starts dense and becomes nothingness, and repeats.
All of the above is a rival theory to “God created earth in 6 days and rested on the 7th”. It is unintuitive because it deals with things we didn´t have to deal with in evolution: invisible energymasspacetime/reality/anti-distinction as a part of reasoning. It also has a multi-reason cause for our existence: a time-wise rationale involving the beginning and end of the big bang combined with a 3-pillar existential theory which justifies size and energymass. It is abstract/scientific but can´t be reduced into simpler terms. It´s the lowest common denominator that everyone can believe in (regardless of religion).
How vaguely has reality defined ”to represent”?
Infinitely vaguely – anything can represent anything.
Is the representation/representer reality or Allah?
No.
Can anything represent that of which all is part?
No.
Then the size-time-diagram is infinite i.e. nothing represents reality. How many is it? How many is Allah? 1.
Did it say…, or did it write a book?
This disproves Allah.
Again: how much of reality can be represented by, say, a painting? The whole of it?
No, the whole of reality cannot be represented. Just like Allah can´t be captured in a picture/word.
We can have hypotheses – how many hypotheses can we have?
If reality is sizes & times, energymass and spacetime then the square-shaped size-time-diagram with energymasspacetime in each coordinate is the universal way to represent all there is to represent.
Does it write books? No, it is not of such authorship-kind nature.
“God said to Muhammed word by word…” is thus a false or at most metaphorical statement.
“You have to do rituals in order not to go to hell, and in heaven you get 72 virgins” is by the same logic also a false claim.
There are three alternatives as the foundation for this logic – can you think of a 4
th
one?
1: Reality is a synonym for Allah
2: or Allah doesn´t exist
3: or there are 72 virgins (not an alternative because reality is not of the nature, because it is size-time-energymasspacetime, to write books).
In addition to the square size-time diagram with infinity symbols in each of it´s corners, and the evolutionary triangle which designates that life becomes more complex as time goes on (the triangle originates at the central size of the known size-range), there is the following brain diagram:
The existential theory with its three pillars, that is an infinite sizerange, energymasspacetime and distinction-anti-distinction-opposition, predicts that there should be a tiny piece of DNA which copies itself. When we have a tiny piece of DNA which copies itself we have three rules which come into play: that some survive and others die, that the number of copies you make has significance and that there is mutation (changes over generation-shifts). These three rules god said directly when the first copying/reproduction occurred. Then these single-celled organisms copy themselves for a while. Then there´s an organism which invents that it can inject its DNA into others´ cells – a virus. It then uses a new mechanism which takes advantage of the reproductive mechanism in other cells. This phenomenon of using others´ reproductive mechanism to make one´s own offspring we can call “power”. First came the three rules – survive, offspring and mutation – then some millions of years passed, then came the worth rule (hijack someone else´s reproductive system like viruses do). Rule number four came first later – it exploits rule number two (that the number of offspring has significance). Then we have viruses and “normal” organisms, and there´s an arms race between them: the viruses mutate and the only way for our organisms to win is for them to become multicellular and get an immune system. And how do you gain more mutations to the immune system? Well, you have two genders. So two-genderedness came from combating viruses – one mutates one´s immune system more. When we have two genders there is the difference that girls have one egg while the males have lots of sperm and then the guys start fighting each other to get the girls. Then it´s the largest one with the sharpest teeth that wins and this happens generation after generation and thus we get the dinosaurs. Among the dinosaurs there was the bond between mother and offspring and it evolves to involve group-members because if a group and an individualist end up in a conflict (fight over resources, females and such) the group wins because it fights as a group instead of as an individual. It was an evolutionary benefit to mutate the mother-offspring-bond to involve group-members. Then someone in the group (now we have some kind of wolves or dogs) mutated the up-down-axis which we have inside our heads: socioeconomic status, the hierarchy, power. He wanted to create a political system where he recruits some males to protect him and themselves from the slaves that were kept outside the flock – that is the same organization which one has in dogs, walruses and humans. First we evolved the mother-offspring-bond, then evolution created the up-down-axis where our body is someone on it and we want upwards in it. One can see it with cells – cells which in space are distributed so that you have up and down and you have a strong urge to gain upwardness. The anatomy of power is important for the whole world to understand to cultivate civilization over short-term greed.
Again: The theory of evolution begins with the first reproducing shape. It was a shape that assembled surrounding mass into a similar shape. The existential theory predicts the existence of infinitely many such shapes. What inevitable becomes true when you have reproduction is that some die and some survive (life and death), that the number of offspring that shape make matters and that there is mutations over time. This is true about the shape´s offspring: some will die and some will survive, the number of offspring they make matters and the offspring can be different from the original shape. These three rules / laws of nature were inactive before the first reproduction occurred. The next main event was that one of these shapes found that if it injected its DNA into other shapes´ reproductive mechanism, it exploited principle number two: that the number of offspring matters. It was the first virus: it hijacked others´ reproduction. The rule / law of nature that came into play with this event was that “power” matters: hijacking others´ reproductive mechanism gives evolutionary benefits. Now we´ve listed the four main rules that govern evolutionary theory: first came the three first, and then came the forth: power. The next main event – to guard against viruses taking over all life / reproductive mechanisms – was that an immune system evolved to protect against virus´ hijack attempts. This required multicellularism. Just like immune systems prompt/require multicellularism, immune systems prompt/require multigenderedism: to win in the arms race against quickly mutating viruses two genders arose to amplify the mutations to the immune system. Mixing genes from two genders creates a more mutated immune system, which can keep ahead in the arms race against quickly-mutating viruses “trying” to mutate to bypass any immune system. The next main event is that one of these multicellular organisms – a fish or worm – of the male gender mutated to be agressive and defeat other males in battle. He would´ve gotten access to many more females than his non-agressive counter-parts. This too can be called “power” because the agressive male hijacks other male´s access to females by killing the males. This prompts the dinosaurs because larger muscle mass and shaper weaponry is better at killing off competitors. Amongst the dinosaurs there was the mother-offspring bond, placed there by evolution for the evolutionary benefits a mother gets from seeing an offspring survive to adulthood. This bond mutated to involve flock-members because a group working together out-competes any individualists when fighting over anything. The next main event was that someone mapped the flock, in his brain, as a hierarchy (up-down-axis) with the longing to dominate peers.
Jonatan Mustonen
Posted on
07/05/2017
07/05/2017
Categories
Most important posts
Leave a comment
on imp 2017 complete semi-book
Can we
timetravel? We can proceed from era to era, just like dinosaurs preceded man and not vice versa – its a universal sequence on any planet.
Heaven/karma instinctual but collides with main picture.
Water, primordial soup, proteins, dns strand. Single cell reproducing multiplying. Then 1 of these cells thought “ill inject my own dna into some other cell”, hijack its reproductive system. Very beneficial. So first there were 3 rules: life n death, number of offspring matters and mutation in each generationshift, then with viruses came the 4th rule “power” – hijacking others’ reproductive system. Then theres an arms race between viruses and … “Our kind of” organism, so to mutate our immune system faster two genders arose. Then fights between males led to the dinosaurs. Then brains bonded into groups to fight individualists. Then capitalist power struggles within the group made the brain grow larger, we’re good at planning and remembering things. Then we get to kingdoms. From the water puddle to the 21 st century. Those who proceed to the next era will live in a world where holy book-group bonds are weak and a universal courses group bond is the strongest, thus national wars or civilizational wars where identity is based on other than this science will be impossible. The planet has two future ways to go 60 years from now and one is better but needs some investment of time until everybody knows this course.
Theres a universal course/book thats on every advanced enough planet throughout the universe and at the regeneration of every universe. If you consider the entire corpus of human knowledge, youd find 3 rational starting points: certain truth, nothingness and that reality is one. Just like dinosaurs predate humans the first chapter with the 3 starting points predate the connecting of “i think n i exist, distinction” and “reality is one, antidistinction. Which leads to that there is more to reality than can be contemplated meaning that its infinite. Thats chaper 2: like multiplication and division are much higher levels of mathematics than adding and subtracting, chaper 2 is higher than the starting points in chapter 1.
———
If you want to be altruistic/selfless you can think about the millions of lives lost or living as refugees due to religious wars and group-loyalties based on ideology/religion. What if group-loyalty could be, for everyone, based on a single universal ideology? Then friendship ties, shared histories, well-mixing personalities and the like would form groups that don´t have a religious mission/an ideological drive. When all ideologies are erased – and religions too – then simple biological mechanisms like common goals, shared interests and family ties bind us together – and those kind of conglomerations are more likely to disintegrate than if there is a holy book or any ideological book as the binding principle between people. If ISIS would be educated then it would disintegrate and many civil wars break out among different families in Iraq/Syria – but there would not be this major cleft between western&modern and holy&dogmatic.
If you want to be selfish like Ayn Rand: the upcoming world order / economy will be a meritocracy based on who advances or knows the most science. The ancient Chinese had a government where even the lowest peasant, if he passed a test in Confuscious´ teachings, could elevate himself higher in the society. Hierarchy is based on what is objectively to be admired; hierarchy is based on what infinitely many extraterrestrials in consensus have agreed upon be the criteria for how a human´s thoughts should be wired; hierarchy is based on the universe´s disposition to reward those with the most accurate world-view or whom advance the pre-existing world-view and spread it to others – the universe wants us choose to elevate in the hierarchy those whom appriciate the universe most fully, wholistically and most accurately. The old power-system based on money is upheld by banks and is based on present day humans´ ties to the past. There will be an overlap between the old bank-based system for establishing VIP-status and the new economy which is a meritocracy based on science. If we want to be like planets ahead of us in the evolution of history, we ought to adapt the meritocracy-economy. After a few generations inherited money seems less legitimate than knowing or advancing science and by doing so wiring one´s cortex (flexible thinking part of the brain) as universally as possible (as much like the consensus among extraterrestrials is as possible).
There are three universal starting points for the universal course which will wire your brain universally. What I mean by “universal” is that:
A) it is based on science meaning that it is retrievable from anywhere at any time; it is available universally unlike some time-specific language-specific location-specific holy-book-revalation.
B) universal means that it is how aliens/extraterrestrials sooner or later wire their brains. Sure: they can choose to live in a multi-worldviewical world but sooner or later the truth will conquer meaning that all various ideas among every tribe or nation will congregate (like a lens focuses many beams of light into one focal point) into a single set of ideas and prioritarizations – a single world-view will emerge from the many. It is the identical world-view that all civilizing planets will congregate to/toward because science is universal. This congregating is as much of a universal step in evolution as that a planet with water will eventually have bacteria. Eventually everyone will know the course and the idea of this book. “What do you believe?” will no longer be a question because everyone has wired their cortex´s ideas based on universal ideas/science.
——–
Am I a muslim?
I have my size-time-diagram into which everything fits and this diagram being infinite gives an existential theory because:
– sizes justify (are the cause of) one another, so there´s infinite justification.
– time is infinite and our universe is observed to become nothingness in the future, and nothingness would be absurd if not for the fact that in the smallest spaces energymass is summoned because E=mc2 is a stable, constant law of nature.
– there can only be separate distinct entities if distinction is counter-balanced and happens in non-distinction (a singular Reality). This point is much like the previous point of that only in nothingness can somethingness be summoned.
God, then, if we are to look for a meaning for the word, cannot be:
– a specific object, size nor time within something infinitely larger
– cannot, by definition, be apart from and “beyond” [that of which all is part] (Reality). Reality being an infinite size- and time-range of energymasspacetime is enough of an existential theory to explain us being here, the Big Bang, and the rest of the questions. God would, if claimed to be “beyond” the existential theory, be an unnecessary unproven assumption but more to the point: God would be “unreal” if Reality is defined as we define it here. Such “beyond Reality”-gods are unreal. What´s more is that the phrase “Allah akbar” (God is the biggest/greatest) wouldn´t be true if Reality/[that of which all is part] is God plus Reality – if [that of which all is part] has two major components, God and an energymasspacetime sizerange etc (the existential theory), then the sum of those two components is greater than God.
God, thus, obviously means Reallity by the definition of God being the greatest. God is then infinite. It makes sense to see people in awe over how much they can study, when they know there´s infinitely many fields of science which we do not have access to but which are logical and necessities for Reality to hold together. There being nothing absurd in an infinite size-range that resembles our known size-range (from quantum physics to the visible universe) is awesome and the highest you could possibly worship. This again proves that God is just a synonym for Reality/the existential theory.
Having studied all fields of science i.e. all sizes is the known sizerange, seeing how they all make up (justify) eachother (that it´s just zooming in and zooming out), the wisdom that the sizerange is infinite (that there are infinitely many sizes making up one another) from the distinction (I think & I am logical path) and anti-distinction (that Reality is one) -thing, is the reason why we exist and God is not some size (sizes are not minds, except through evolution). Having studied all known sizes and knowing that the sizerange is infinite: it is an explanation to why we´re here (akin to the Adam and Eve story or “God created earth in 6 days” story) but it is not a revalation-giving thing – the Quran wasn´t written by God because God is not the kind of thing that writes/dictates stories. God being an infinite sizerange as thus our Creator is true, but the true way to get knowledge, rituals/pictoral representations and even guidance is through my work, not the work of the holy book-writers. The holy book writers might have said something true about God (just like I do in my work) – but that is true of science textbooks moreso – and they all said false things such as that God talks/gives revalations/authors holy books.
I can see the bronze-age marketing-team´s standpoint: people are more prone to follow dictates if they´re said to come from something/someone “higher than human” i.e. a God or a ghost/spirit. Being invisible in as nonsense-a-way as some rituals are, is great for marketing. Everyone knows how humans thing – they´re themselves human; we are only partly rational (a computer is rational) in what we think – all our animal lusts bias or interrupt the thoughts that are as logical as they get, but they´re always going to be based against an evolutionary background just like the pitfall that my abstract diagram-including infinity-mentioning world-view is more like algebra than “what a world-view (context in which we are) should be thinking about that we lived for millions of years on the savannah, only needing to know (in one´s world-view) where the water-source is or whom stands under whom in the social hierarchy. We´ve mapped geographies, the use-based properties of objects/tools and personalities (and still do) for a gazillion years – only with the advent of science SOME of us achieved higher i.e. used their evolved meager toolkit with all its biases to scetch out something like the theory of evolution in the 1800s. Looking at the evolution of [what we use our memory for]/how we map our surroundings/our world-view, before we mapped social relationships we mapped geographies. Before we mapped the functions of inventions (tools) our map only contained caveman tools (sharp stones and spears). The next step is to map one´s context as an infinite size-time-diagram (where size and time are really the same, but abstract thinking allows us to separate them into two distinct axises) or energymasspacetime (with its´ many laws of nature found in every school textbook in the world) and the distinction-antidistinction-
thing which feels so awkward/abstract that one wonders why one needs it as pillar 3 of the existential theory: the answer is: it wasn´t invented (the words “I see a distinct object” or “why is there distinction?” weren´t said in the same breath as “Reality is one” or “energymass and spacetime unite”) until I did it in the 21st century). It might seem trivial to mention that separate entities exist in a singular Reality – it´s so obvious (that´s why no-one cared to make a big fuzz out of inventing it) but it makes the existential theory have three pillars (all of which can seem obvious) and not 4 – there´s nothing more to add to the existential theory once you´ve added the obvious “separation in antidistinction”-statement. I want to know how aliens (the infinitely many of them, steered by science toward an incommon path) think because its synonymous to finding a TRUE “key to history” (Marx thought the key was equality, Hitler thought the key was racial superiority and a brutally competative relationship between races, Capitalism thinks it´s freedom (less government), some might think they “key to history” is to fund technological development). “How aliens think” is a shorthand way of saying “the key to history” or “what will happen next/eventually and in hindsight seen as akin to the era of ancient grecoroman culture, the Industrial Revolution or the Digital revolution)”. It´s what we´re steered towards; it´s the closest thing we get to divine guidance. It´s simply universal (drawn on science and practiced by infinitely many aliens) guidance/suggestions/
recommendations that we, as a species, can choose to promogate and thus “follow” or if we´ll stick to multiculturalism´s many -ism´s like political quran-based islamism or christian-based “the holy book gave me this”-morality and codes of conduct. Some -ism´s are dangerous (like quran-based politics and law) while some -ism´s like christianity give too much credit to the -ism for simple human decency (in an age of extreme wealth globally). When my tummy is full I´m a decent person – I try to make money but I´m not desparate after extreme wealth because I know that my caveman-brain´s “need” for power (through status-symbols and freedom of space my environment to maximize the effectiveness of my hobby (writing)) won´t get satisfied no matter what external extravaganzas trigger my eyeballs, nor can people (socializing) make me much more satisfied than I am right now because all that is interesting and that there is to people is their brain – and after a few weeks together there´ll be nothing I know nor any mental tool that I use that won´t, despite copyright, be in the hands of my friend: we won´t talk science (me teaching him/her) after all the science has been taught. I don´t care to teach trivia so when I say “I teach SCIENCE” I mean a finite thing: the existential theory plus something from each level of the known sizerange. Getting a P.hD from specializing on finding the structure of a rare protein only found in the feet of Amazonian forrest-mice is to put your eyes too close to the diagram; P.hDs for specializing/having a very narrow topic for one´s mind to engage in are for people who don´t see the forest for the trees and care to rather look at one leaf of one tree instead of thinking about and seeing the forest as a whole. I´m a forest person – a leaf 10 cm from my eyes just bugs me. That´s why there is a finite repertoire to what I call “science” – it takes a few days for me (my accomplishment/my work) to be fully understood and if repeated repetative. One only needs to know why/where one exists (the existential theory) once – one can´t forget it because we are made to remember the very context in which we live (here an evolutionary bias helps us: when someone explains “what the world is” we remember it because “what the world was” in caveman days was the most useful thing the brain could do – in fact we evolved such large brains because bigger brains remember better (can moreso map social relationships, successfull or unsuccesfull learning-experiences). We want to climb upwards in the hierarchy, find a mate, etc but all these wants and needs would be useless (they´d having nothing to work on) if it weren´t for the map (of social relationships etc) that our brain is capable of remembering. We are inclined to remember existential theories because such knowledge about our place in the context was as useful as mapping whom is married to whom. This bias, by the way, is something holy book writers used to get people interested in their book. “God created earth in 6 days (not 5)” is memorable because of our bias toward wanting to know about “creation of the world” – so the number “6 days” is remembered too because it adds to the map that we then work on to seek power and other evolutionary benefits. It´s hard to make plans that have one reach evolutionary benefits if one does not know one´s environment/the external world. “6 days for creating this place/world” adds to one´s map of the environment/place/external world. We have a bias for remembering it. Too bad the bronze-age holy books used this marketing trick (“hey, let´s say something about their world (like the creation of it) because that would be something they remember!”) to give pseudo- existential theories. The holy books made sales because not only do people want information about their context, people also want God to talk and interfere with day-to-day personal activites. Once you have a pseudo-explanation for how/why the world was created, you´re free to add to that pseudo-explanation that “the creator talks”. It´s impossible to add such a talking thing to my existential theory – not only is it unnecessary (my theory works stand-alone) but it also contradicts basically every concept of my existential theory. The very definitions of energymasspacetime (meaning that God had nothingness as the canvas to paint on – a nothingness that needs energymass and summons it because of the laws of nature inherent in that nothingness – and chose to paint a beginning with as-dense-as-can-be (just like E=mc2 would´ve created it because E=mc2 is true in the smallest spaces). Where was God when this happened? Couldn´t have been energymass because energymass is only summoned once the universe becomes pure nothingness. If God is not energymass and energymass is existence – then God doesn´t exist / God is nothing. What doesn´t exist or is nothing doesn´t give revalations to men, doesn´t care whom you sleep with, etc. Is God or God´s heaven a location in our size of infinite spacetime? In that case God is simply a far-away alien (which warrants questions about its evolution) but again – it doesn´t talk to us because of the distance and we wouldn´t be too impressed even if an evolved God did talk to us (we are quite like it – our science is the same, our world-view is the same). God is not a location in a size but is God a size? The sizerange is infinite (as proven by distinction not being able to see antidistinction) and that´d mean that there´s a creator to God (and that thing too has a creator, ad infinitum) IN THE SAME WAY as humans built cities or atoms make molecules. Again, if God is a size it warrant´s the question: is God every location of that size or is God, like humans, in a location of that size? Whatever be the case, God still couldn´t communicate with us. Since God fits neither in the context of energymasspacetime nor the context of the sizerange, a God-theory absolutely contradicts the true theory. What is said about God – that God is the greatest – makes only one “location”/notion in the existential theory correspond to a non-talking uncaring God: the theory itself (and more precisely Reality/[that of which all is part]) is the greatest. It certainly doesn´t hear/talk nor give revalations because it comes as an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime. When you tell this science, you can get to the point where you define Reality as “that of which all is part” and the greatest – you can even get to antidistinction/the unrepresentability of Reality (fully, because we do represent some things) and people might still hope that a talking God can exist. But as soon as you mention the less abstract (the more abstract was that [that of which all is part cannot be observed]), the God-theory either surrenders or is in conflict with a/the existential theory which certainly is true (anyone can verify how the components of the theory fit together, make sense and explain everything). God as a synonym for Reality is boring – why do we even have two words if we mean the same (scientific sizerange) thing.
If you assume that God is a synonym for Reality (which comes as an infinite sizescale, which in turn predicts a DNA-strand somewhere and voila: everything is explained), then I believe in your God. It doesn´t appriciate my appriciation of it though, nor do rituals, following rules (made by men) etc please it. If I am to “show my appriciation to it” I do it by writing as I do right now – that´s my worship of it: but I´m under no illusion that this writing would please God by being logical (eventhough Reality itself is logical too – so we have something incommon) – me writing can be called worship but the only appriciating recipients of my writing are me and readers of my text. Whatever I write about Reality/God doesn´t please God (because God is not a thing that listens, likes worship by others and other human needs) – whatever worshippers do, I hope they do it for themselves and for other humans because no-one else is able to care or comprehend the worship. I would do the muslim prayer if I felt that that kind of discipline would benefit me (and a few times I did get a good feeling from going to the mosque and being among worshippers). It´s so easy to adapt to the customs of one´s peers (and especially one´s superiors, if one believes that there are those) that my attitude toward worship/ritual is “when in Rome, do like the romans (if you or others gain something out of it)”. The world is complex – I could have the same attitude toward the beliefs of islam: that I´ll just say that something is through eventhough it obviously isn´t because it contradicts, say, a talking holy book-writing God. Could I make myself believe that something talkative is God? The belief disintegrates and I get the foul feeling of that I´ve used my valuable memory to note down a lie everytime I would think just one step/association further from the belief itself. I can believe (in anything) but analyzing it even the smallest amount will make me disbelieve it. But when you´re in the mood of not analyzing – like when one is having a panic attack on one´s death-bed – I´ll be (extremely) simplistic and do what some people seem to always do: “believe (in something that breaks down when analyzed)”. What confuses me is that some people believe all the time – they seem perfectly sane but they believe in a talking, scripture-giving God (that doesn´t fit anywhere in the existential theory). Do they need comfort (from untruth) all the time? It seems like they´re trying to argue their position, though. A perplexing phenomenon at first glance but when you consider that they´re uneducated about my existential theory, any theory will do (even a talking God-theory). I am not hateful of it when I see it in other people – I see it as humorous/ridicilous – but when it binds people together (to form what in essence is an army) and there´s many of them (10 000 religions/”armies”) the world´s got a problem. Binding people together through their shared scripture and their belief that something impossible is true is bad because groups tend to be more violent than individualists – especially if their holy text 1) seems to bind billions of people to their army (morale-strength amplification in a group is the root of violence), and 2) preaches violence/disrespect (many holy books are xenophobic and eager to create an “us vs. them”-social dynamic). If the holy book is taken seriously (if it can´t be thrown in the trash) then we have bronze-age xenophobia (based on who likes the book and who doesn´t) creeping into the modern day, and we also have artificial bonding/loyalty – we basically get groups who are hostile (or more disrespectful) toward anyone who doesn´t see the point (“there´s a talking God”) they´re promoting. It´s such an easily fixable problem: if you read my work you simply cannot believe in a talking God – my professional role is that you can give me ANY individual and I can “convert” him/her into not believing in a talking God. Whether this person will follow his or her group´s rituals or codes of conduct, though, is up to them – it´s sheer peer pressure.
The “us vs. them” “we are a big group” (and especially) “we should convert the whole world so that they use their precious memory for knowing nonsense like we do” are such great reasons for violence – and of course it´s fixable because what these people lack is education: only where there is no theory, can a pseudo-theory take root. Only where there is no argument/debate/science can “God talks” seem like legitimate truth. This means that much of the world´s violence is due to a lack of education (about the big questions i.e. what I talk about). Sure: some religions can be interpreted to say “kill the infidels” or some other explicit declaration of war – but it´s hard for a religion to survive if it constantly preaces fighting (it must have more clever tactics than that – but it does tend to seek world-dominion). I´m not so worried that someone reads the Quran and thinks “I´ll help the [unbelieves in the Quran´s talking God] to get to hell faster, because the Quran says that that´s where they belong”. I am worried about that the Quran (or any holy book) is the glue that binds people together. Religion is the last glue before we enter an era where obviously arbitrary things like nationalism or language makes strangers feel more familiar with eachother. Nation and language aren´t taken that seriously – nor should religion be, but it is. This binding-effect that holy books have is what makes ISIS / the taliban etc so hard to defeat – they think, not only that they have an all-seeing revalation-giving God on their side, but they also have the exact same copy of a book that a billion people have. They feel strong (with their, seemingly to them, superior numbers). Obviously ISIS underestimated the ability of the Quran to draw in arab nations into the fight over Iraq & Syria – the modern world simply leaned on the fact that ISIS are not muslims because they interpret the bronze-age ramble wrong. But ISIS / the taliban is still a factor – the quran binds too many people together in certain areas of the world – violence is caused, due to the binding-effect, the “moral superiority”-effect, the “power in numbers and billions of people read the Quran”-effect etc (all these effects are there even if you skip the parts about the talking God who word for word said the Quran) make men as prone to violence as anything can make them: they´re a group with an “us vs. them” dogma & feeling and they feel like they have power in numbers. Add to that the frustration over having to finance an own home before one can ejaculate. Those circumstances can make the group take up arms and “send the infidels where they belong”. Following the commandments frustrates, the whole notion of “let´s all prioritize this text highest (our favorite book) so that we´re bound together” and that the text itself can be interpreted as violent all are a breeding-ground for trouble – and when you´re in the trouble that the text creates, you are not in the state of mind to do the internal debate necessary to disprove a talking God and thus make your whole way of life become something that you either do as meaningless fun or don´t do because no-one cares. But just as some people want to become professional soccer players and some atheists do zen-meditation, humans (by personal preference) want hobbies, to take up a discipline, to do something that adds, say, pride to their life. I don´t personally care about soccer and I don´t feel pride from doing any ritual, but I can definitely see that others take the muslim prayers like an athlete takes their sport. It´s possible to find out the objective truth about whether these prayers “please God or not” (by, like I´ve done in this text, disproving all kinds of false Gods and making the real God more mundane and not a talker). Rituals don´t please Reality/”the energymasspacetime sizerange” because it is not a thing that gets pleased – it´s like trying to please a rock. You do the prayers because you enjoy the pride/hobby for its own sake – like someone doing sports likes his/her sport. Pleasing a rock/God to get to a “heaven” (which too doesn´t fit into the true existential theory) is stupid unless it´s akin to a hobby/sport where you do it for doing it´s sake. Same thing with the “heaven hates ham”-thing – when you know enough science (enough = what I´ve written so far in this text) you´ll realize that the whole ham-prohibition is man-made (from the bronze age) and linked to some pre-scientific nonsense from-the-horse´s-mouth-
statement (can´t say rationale because it´s dogma). If you (and secondarily your peers) are dedicated to nonsense (whether it be sports, stamp-collecting, memorizing capitals or not eating pork), then do it if it does something good like prove to yourself (and others) that you have a strong discipline (even though your effort is misdirected toward nonsense). I can invent a ritual and do it every day, and maybe I´d feel pride over that I can keep to a schedule of nonsense, but I would never claim the theory that there is a talking God, and by extention I wouldn´t say that that ficticious talker prohibited ham. The mundane action must be differentiated from the logical argument. Ham-prohibitions and talking Gods are artifacts that belong in the past – modern white A4-paper is too beautiful for someone to write something as erroneous as “there is a talking God” on it. But as I´m writing this, people are dying because religion binds them together (and frustrates them, and boosts their war-morale in many ways). My work can cause a civil war within ISIS – a civil rift so permiating that only family ties, friendships and common goals (to get money, not to spread islam) can keep people together in groups. Once my existential theory is known there will still be crime and instability in Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan, but the evil deeds will only be committed by groups of 2-3 people – not 20 000 of them. The binding effect of the Quran can most clearly be seen in that internet-propaganda made Quran-readers from the USA and Europe go fight in Syria – everyone wants a group and it´s totally human to assume that knowing the same book will be enough for a bond to be as strong as one wants it to be.
Right now “my work” is 9 proper texts and a few videos. They all talk about the same thing (which can be formulated as: I´ll say as much as I can about things I´ve never heard anyone else say (and I´ve seen the best professors in the world teaching truths)). To cause a rift in the taliban/ISIS and stop the war by making group-bonding (around a holy book) problematic/impossible, my whole “work” doesn´t need to be dropped as propaganda books on top of ISIS and the taliban. It´s enough that the news headlines say that “a correct all-explaining existential theory has been found – religions in crysis” or that enough people know my theory so that a multitude of youtube videos are made where, in a sentence or two, the presenter goes off-topic and mentions why we exist / something from my theory. Having understood it once makes it impossible to forget – having understood it once makes group-bonding over religion (which fuels ISIS/the taliban/etc) impossible. If the world could just take 20 minutes of its´ time to spend on explaining/teaching/arguing my work/theory, then the war on terror would be over – otherwise it will persist as long as people have no actual, logical theory about their existence and thus believe in bronze-age marketing tricks.
——-
The theory of evolution begins with the first reproducing shape. It was a shape that assembled surrounding mass into a similar shape. The existential theory predicts the existence of infinitely many such shapes. What inevitable becomes true when you have reproduction is that some die and some survive (life and death), that the number of offspring that shape make matters and that there is mutations over time. This is true about the shape´s offspring: some will die and some will survive, the number of offspring they make matters and the offspring can be different from the original shape. These three rules / laws of nature were inactive before the first reproduction occurred. The next main event was that one of these shapes found that if it injected its DNA into other shapes´ reproductive mechanism, it exploited principle number two: that the number of offspring matters. It was the first virus: it hijacked others´ reproduction. The rule / law of nature that came into play with this event was that “power” matters: hijacking others´ reproductive mechanism gives evolutionary benefits. Now we´ve listed the four main rules that govern evolutionary theory: first came the three first, and then came the forth: power. The next main event – to guard against viruses taking over all life / reproductive mechanisms – was that an immune system evolved to protect against virus´ hijack attempts. This required multicellularism. Just like immune systems prompt/require multicellularism, immune systems prompt/require multigenderedism: to win in the arms race against quickly mutating viruses two genders arose to amplify the mutations to the immune system. Mixing genes from two genders creates a more mutated immune system, which can keep ahead in the arms race against quickly-mutating viruses “trying” to mutate to bypass any immune system. The next main event is that one of these multicellular organisms – a fish or worm – of the male gender mutated to be agressive and defeat other males in battle. He would´ve gotten access to many more females than his non-agressive counter-parts. This too can be called “power” because the agressive male hijacks other male´s access to females by killing the males. This prompts the dinosaurs because larger muscle mass and shaper weaponry is better at killing off competitors. Amongst the dinosaurs there was the mother-offspring bond, placed there by evolution for the evolutionary benefits a mother gets from seeing an offspring survive to adulthood. This bond mutated to involve flock-members because a group working together out-competes any individualists when fighting over anything. The next main event was that someone mapped the flock, in his brain, as a hierarchy (up-down-axis) with the longing to dominate peers.
Posted on
07/05/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
Dude, evolution has me try to maximize evolutionary benefits using my plans; im always thinking at full speed and pain drives that thinking. And i know for certain that all this pain is meaningless. Its a suicide recipe but what prevents me from suicide is the natural strength that stems from being the pinnacle of beasts who all have survived for generations.
Posted on
05/05/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
Audios
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/Voice-005.m4a
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/Voice-006.m4a
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/Voice-008.m4a
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/Voice-009.m4a
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/Voice-010.m4a
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/Voice-003.m4a
Posted on
05/05/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Audios
My religion is to bitchslap Reality and then laugh about the attempt to bitchslap it.
Bön (=skratt) i storlek-tid. Stressen går ut = det är det helande miraklet. Den heliga skriften är ett skämt.
Jag gör en beskrivning av verkligheten, skrattar åt meningslösheten/grymheten/depressionen i den. T.ex. “storlek-tid”.
Vapnet i det heliga kriget är humor.
Posted on
04/05/2017
04/05/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
New book 2017
Chapter 1:
What problem does this solve?
This solves a problem that becomes most visible 60 years from now when sea-levels rise, the economy goes into permanent decline and oil ends. That´s when humans start to fight (and belong in world-view-based groups to do so). While the economy is still rising the clashes are few and far between – Afghanistan, Syria, ISIS´ world-wide terror attacks (mainly muslim world-views clashing with tolerant world-views). When the economy starts declining there´ll naturally be more friction between groups, and groups are made up of world-views (people identify as in a group based on world-view).
Advancing the scientific world-view to the level where it explains our origin and thus invades religious intellectual turf, solves the problem of world-views colliding as war.
Chapter 2:
Certain truth – I think & I am
You have a composite certain truth consisting of two certain truths: you can claim as certain that you think (because if you were being fooled: being fooled is thinking) and that you exist (because being fooled requires the one who is fooled to be there). I think and I exist is one statement but two truths. You can certainly claim to have “distinction” because you´re dealing with multiple separate distinct entities (such as “I” and “thought”). One could put it, while seeing the certain truths “I think” and “I exist”, that the space between the two notions (thinker and thought) is the hallmark of distinction. The distance separating thinker from thought we can recognize as necessary for “distinction” to be concluded as a certain truth arising, in a next logical step, from the original primary certain truth.
Everyone agrees they they themselves exist, because if one would get fooled in everyone one can be fooled in then one would exist there anyway and be fooled. So one knows that one exists. Then one also knows that one thinks because “to get fooled” is a thought-process. Thus we have two things: I think and I exist. And the distinction between them: and on the flipside of the paper we have the opposite of that: anti-distinction, and this can also be called “that of which all is part”/Reality. And since we are in the distinction-side of the paper when we see something; when we see something there is distinction between us and that thing. Thus we cannot represent or see that which is on the other side of the paper i.e. that of which all is part / Reality. Nothing can represent – because it is distinct – Reality. So whatever which is distinct cannot… whatever that is observed or represented is distinct and therefore is not… therefore does not represent Reality / “that of which all is part”. So we have distinction and anti-distinction as opposing poles.
You have a certain truth which everyone in the whole world agrees upon. You think and you exist since if you were being fooled by an almighty demon you´d still both think and exist. Then there are two things i.e. distinction. All is part of a single reality which is anti-distinction, there are no separate parts: reality is one. If we put distinction on the left side of the paper and anti-distinction on the right side then (we) distinction cannot see that of which all is part because “to see” is “to represent” and then one uses something to refer to reality. There is nothing outside reality which can refer to reality but instead reality is defined as “that of which all is part” and then there is nothing that can refer to all of reality. The opposition between the two sides of the paper (distinction & anti-distinction) makes reality as “that of which all is part”-anti-distinction non-representable because representation always involves distinction. What we see, for example, is just parts of reality. The hypotheses can be infinitely much so there is infinitely much to reality. Sizes and times, that is. In the existential theory (“why we exist”) there, thus, is an infinite size-range with time, energymass in spacetime (everything and nothing intertwined like in the E=mc2 equation – energy equals mass times, well – spacetime; multiplication is what unites energymass with spacetime). Then we have distinction and anti-distinction: separate things but all is part of a single reality. The existential theory with its three pillars, that is an infinite sizerange, energymasspacetime and distinction-anti-distinction-opposition, predicts that there should be a tiny piece of DNA which copies itself.
Then there´s another kind of revelation that got respect. Descartes who lived in the 1600s got respect, fame and was invited to live with the Queen of Sweden because he had gotten an idea which certainly told us something true. Revelations can either be con men´s statements like they were from ape-man and forward, or they can actually claim something which is verifyably true. Descartes, propably having his mind overcrowded by the masses of revelations that had accumulated to his time, asked: “what would be true if all my statements were false?”. What would remain if I tossed all my knowledge and ideas into the trash? Are we stuck with countless unverifyable statements, some contradicting eachother, not knowing which ones are true and which ones are not? Obviously not since statements about architecture are obviously true since they build houses, while contradictory statements do not. So Descartes dared to throw all his knowledge in the trash to see what remained. He found certain truth: that he exists – because even if he was wrong or was being fooled in everything he thought to be true, there´d still be a “he” there. He certainly exists no matter what. Same thing goes for thoughts: being wrong or being fooled is a thinking-process so even if he was wrong or was being fooled in everything he thought, there´d still be thought.
Socrates: So he figured out that he thinks and he exists.
God: These are not one statement – they are two.
Socrates: What does that mean?
God: I´ll tell you later – just agree with me that there is distinction between thinker and thought – that the statements are two. It´s building on certain truth, and it´s possible to build a whole… whatever it is that “saves the world” from the coming economic decline by having everyone build on certain truth until the God-debate is settled. Remembering “distinction” (between thinker and thought) will prevent the horror-scenario of large-scale future wars between people group-bound by religions, and instead – since everyone built a whole world-view on certain truth – have a more stable decline in the future. “Distinction” i.e. remembering that there are two certain truths (thinker and thought) is a step on the way toward a plan that will save humanity from destroying itself as much as it would if we didn´t build our world-views on certain truth.
Plato: So after an era of “revelation”-revelations invented by anyone for whatever purpose, coming from Darwin´s ape-man´s revelations, Descartes, in the 1600s, invented a revelation – certain truth: I think and I exist – which got him invited to the Queen of Sweden for the rest of his life. People have always liked revelations and even verifyable truth-claims like Descartes´ get respect.
God: I have set it as true that each one of you humans can verify in your own mind´s eye that you do certainly exist and that there certainly is thought – and thus there is distinction.
Darwin: Distinction is an abstract word. That two objects are separate/different from one another is one of those notions and ape-man never made into language – there was never the evolutionary need to talk about “distinction”. Yes: one could say that one banana is different from another (and one wants the bigger one), but to have Distinction exist stand-alone as a distinct notion is abstract thinking and we are not evolved to do that. For millions of years the caveman word for “distinction” was only used in a sentance – not stand-alone as in “distinction certainly exists because thinker and thought are both certain truths”.
Chapter 3:
Distinction-antidistinction-opposition
The first proof for that the size-time-diagram is infinite is distinction´s (our) inability to see/represent anti-distinction.
Chapter 4:
Maximum size?
The second prooof for that the size-time-diagram is infinite is that if we imagine a partless anti-distinction then it has no distinction as in a “maximum” or “minimum” size, i.e. the size-range is infinite.
Chapter 5:
Infinite size-time-diagram
Chapter 6:
Existential theory´s 3 pillars
Chapter 7:
Prediction of DNA
Posted on
04/05/2017
04/05/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on New book 2017
Posted on
27/04/2017
Categories
Most important posts
Leave a comment
on
Om anledningen till att religiösa krig fortsätter är att Jonatan inte fått en riskkapitalist att köpa volvo, villa, vovve för att skriva bättre… …så måste något radikalt göras, tänkar Jonatan när han röker på.
Posted on
26/04/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
Everyone agrees on that reality is one. Because it´s one nothing can represent it, because the representer too should be part of reality. That means that there is a size-time-diagram which is infinite. And that´s why we exist. Everyone agrees on this eventhough we are distinct unique individuals. We have this world-view incommon, with extraterrestrials too.
Posted on
26/04/2017
27/04/2017
Categories
Most important posts
Leave a comment
on
Pre
The text begins with certain truth, goes on to explaining why something exists rather than nothing (the existential theory – why we exist), and then goes on to evolutionary theory which is predicted by the existential theory and explains everday occurances.
Posted on
26/04/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Pre
Posts navigation
Page
1
Page
2
…
Page
13
Next page
Proudly powered by WordPress

Jonatan Mustonen – yonis1@gmail.com – A generalization of all existing science – the proof for that religion is unnecessary (like an appendix)
Skip to content
Jonatan Mustonen – yonis1@gmail.com
A generalization of all existing science – the proof for that religion is unnecessary (like an appendix)
Menu and widgets
Search for:
Recent Posts
imp 2017 complete semi-book
1112
1101
Audios
1088
Recent Comments
Dagbok/diary 1 april 2017 – Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
on
Action thriller scifi book
Archives
May 2017
April 2017
March 2017
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
January 2016
Categories
Dagbok
Most important posts
Old
OldDagbok
The book + diagrams
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.org
imp 2017 complete semi-book
The text begins with certain truth, goes on to explaining why something exists rather than nothing (the existential theory – why we exist), and then goes on to evolutionary theory which is predicted by the existential theory and explains everday occurances.
You know for certain that you think and that you exist because even if an almighty demon was fooling you in everything you can possibly be fooled in, the fooling itself is a thought-process and therefore you know that thought exists (you think), and for you to be fooled you have to exist and therefore you know “I exist”. Being fooled is thinking and a thinker is necessary for there to be someone to be fooled. So you know: no matter what, you think and you exist. Those are two things, right? They´re both part of the same brain and the thought-process can become the analytical toolkit/thinker, but still we recognize that there are distinct entities – there is distinction. This can also be called separation. What is distinction´s opposite, anti-distinction? It´s one reality; that of which all is part; it´s one and reality´s definition in the dictionary is that all is part of it. If we write distinction (thinker and thought) on the left side of the paper and anti-distinction (reality; that of which all is part; one) on the right side of the paper – can the left side see the right side? No, because of opposition between distinction and anti-distinction. Because of there always being an observer (a thinker) and thus distinction in every observation and thus anti-distinction can´t be represented/seen.
The brain evolved to deal with natural occurances – there was never an event in history where something invisible was to be contemplated and dealt with. Thus we seem to assume that the thought-process went wrong when we say that distinction/us can´t see anti-distinction/reality. But the thought-process didn´t go wrong: all that it means is that there is more to reality than can be represented. Regardless of how vaguely “represents” is defined, say a coffee cup – regardless of brains being involved – is assumed to try to represent that of which all is part, then anti-dinstinction – distinction – opposition (the opposition between distinction and it´s opposite) makes the representation incorrect. We can ask if there in an anti-distinct “thing” is a maximum size and thus distinction? No. Likewise, another proof for that the size-range is infinite is that we do sense something (our everyday world) and can make hypotheses ad infinitum, and yet nothing represents ALL OF reality. Reality i.e. size-time thus is infinite.
The infinite size-range is one pillar in the existential theory. Another pillar is energymass and spacetime being opposites but intertwined as in E=mc2 (where c2 refers to a speed which is space over time: spacetime). Multiplication joins energymass together with spacetime; nothing together with something/everything; existence together with non-existence. Why is there existence the shape of my body? Without going into the historical answer, one can explain it by saying that the body is something in (intertwined with) nothing, of a size in an infinite size-range (where the relationship between any two sizes (or objects of two sizes) is that they make sense of i.e. Justify one another). Then there too, as a third pillar, is distinction-anti-distinction-opposition i.e. We live in a single (not plural) reality but we see distinct/separate entities such as thinker and thought.
Speaking of spacetime, spacetime is the logical starting point for the time-based existential theory. Nothingness (empty space) need to prior justification nor reason to exist, because it doesn´t exist. In it, however, laws of nature are true i.e. It is not irrational / anti-logical, and among the many laws of nature there are those, including E=mc2, which mention energymass. Could energymass be “mentioned” without it existing? If yes, it would be absurd / anti-logical. Why would reality mention things that never exist? But since laws of nature are firm and because of our rule “what is mentioned must exist or must be summoned” we get, wherever (in the smallest spaces) that E=mc2 is mentioned, existence and thus dense existence: a big bang. The fact that galaxies are speeding away acceleratingly from one another leads to nothingness in the future, and with the middleman “laws of nature” again energymass is summoned as dense as can be. No time-delay between nothingness – laws of nature – energymass but as soon as a bordered (by event horizons which are determined by the finite speed of light) region becomes nothingness, a big bang occurs and eventually becomes nothingness bordered by event horizons again. This is the time-wise description of why energymass (which exists intertwined with spacetime as in E=mc2) starts dense and becomes nothingness, and repeats.
All of the above is a rival theory to “God created earth in 6 days and rested on the 7th”. It is unintuitive because it deals with things we didn´t have to deal with in evolution: invisible energymasspacetime/reality/anti-distinction as a part of reasoning. It also has a multi-reason cause for our existence: a time-wise rationale involving the beginning and end of the big bang combined with a 3-pillar existential theory which justifies size and energymass. It is abstract/scientific but can´t be reduced into simpler terms. It´s the lowest common denominator that everyone can believe in (regardless of religion).
How vaguely has reality defined ”to represent”?
Infinitely vaguely – anything can represent anything.
Is the representation/representer reality or Allah?
No.
Can anything represent that of which all is part?
No.
Then the size-time-diagram is infinite i.e. nothing represents reality. How many is it? How many is Allah? 1.
Did it say…, or did it write a book?
This disproves Allah.
Again: how much of reality can be represented by, say, a painting? The whole of it?
No, the whole of reality cannot be represented. Just like Allah can´t be captured in a picture/word.
We can have hypotheses – how many hypotheses can we have?
If reality is sizes & times, energymass and spacetime then the square-shaped size-time-diagram with energymasspacetime in each coordinate is the universal way to represent all there is to represent.
Does it write books? No, it is not of such authorship-kind nature.
“God said to Muhammed word by word…” is thus a false or at most metaphorical statement.
“You have to do rituals in order not to go to hell, and in heaven you get 72 virgins” is by the same logic also a false claim.
There are three alternatives as the foundation for this logic – can you think of a 4
th
one?
1: Reality is a synonym for Allah
2: or Allah doesn´t exist
3: or there are 72 virgins (not an alternative because reality is not of the nature, because it is size-time-energymasspacetime, to write books).
In addition to the square size-time diagram with infinity symbols in each of it´s corners, and the evolutionary triangle which designates that life becomes more complex as time goes on (the triangle originates at the central size of the known size-range), there is the following brain diagram:
The existential theory with its three pillars, that is an infinite sizerange, energymasspacetime and distinction-anti-distinction-opposition, predicts that there should be a tiny piece of DNA which copies itself. When we have a tiny piece of DNA which copies itself we have three rules which come into play: that some survive and others die, that the number of copies you make has significance and that there is mutation (changes over generation-shifts). These three rules god said directly when the first copying/reproduction occurred. Then these single-celled organisms copy themselves for a while. Then there´s an organism which invents that it can inject its DNA into others´ cells – a virus. It then uses a new mechanism which takes advantage of the reproductive mechanism in other cells. This phenomenon of using others´ reproductive mechanism to make one´s own offspring we can call “power”. First came the three rules – survive, offspring and mutation – then some millions of years passed, then came the worth rule (hijack someone else´s reproductive system like viruses do). Rule number four came first later – it exploits rule number two (that the number of offspring has significance). Then we have viruses and “normal” organisms, and there´s an arms race between them: the viruses mutate and the only way for our organisms to win is for them to become multicellular and get an immune system. And how do you gain more mutations to the immune system? Well, you have two genders. So two-genderedness came from combating viruses – one mutates one´s immune system more. When we have two genders there is the difference that girls have one egg while the males have lots of sperm and then the guys start fighting each other to get the girls. Then it´s the largest one with the sharpest teeth that wins and this happens generation after generation and thus we get the dinosaurs. Among the dinosaurs there was the bond between mother and offspring and it evolves to involve group-members because if a group and an individualist end up in a conflict (fight over resources, females and such) the group wins because it fights as a group instead of as an individual. It was an evolutionary benefit to mutate the mother-offspring-bond to involve group-members. Then someone in the group (now we have some kind of wolves or dogs) mutated the up-down-axis which we have inside our heads: socioeconomic status, the hierarchy, power. He wanted to create a political system where he recruits some males to protect him and themselves from the slaves that were kept outside the flock – that is the same organization which one has in dogs, walruses and humans. First we evolved the mother-offspring-bond, then evolution created the up-down-axis where our body is someone on it and we want upwards in it. One can see it with cells – cells which in space are distributed so that you have up and down and you have a strong urge to gain upwardness. The anatomy of power is important for the whole world to understand to cultivate civilization over short-term greed.
Again: The theory of evolution begins with the first reproducing shape. It was a shape that assembled surrounding mass into a similar shape. The existential theory predicts the existence of infinitely many such shapes. What inevitable becomes true when you have reproduction is that some die and some survive (life and death), that the number of offspring that shape make matters and that there is mutations over time. This is true about the shape´s offspring: some will die and some will survive, the number of offspring they make matters and the offspring can be different from the original shape. These three rules / laws of nature were inactive before the first reproduction occurred. The next main event was that one of these shapes found that if it injected its DNA into other shapes´ reproductive mechanism, it exploited principle number two: that the number of offspring matters. It was the first virus: it hijacked others´ reproduction. The rule / law of nature that came into play with this event was that “power” matters: hijacking others´ reproductive mechanism gives evolutionary benefits. Now we´ve listed the four main rules that govern evolutionary theory: first came the three first, and then came the forth: power. The next main event – to guard against viruses taking over all life / reproductive mechanisms – was that an immune system evolved to protect against virus´ hijack attempts. This required multicellularism. Just like immune systems prompt/require multicellularism, immune systems prompt/require multigenderedism: to win in the arms race against quickly mutating viruses two genders arose to amplify the mutations to the immune system. Mixing genes from two genders creates a more mutated immune system, which can keep ahead in the arms race against quickly-mutating viruses “trying” to mutate to bypass any immune system. The next main event is that one of these multicellular organisms – a fish or worm – of the male gender mutated to be agressive and defeat other males in battle. He would´ve gotten access to many more females than his non-agressive counter-parts. This too can be called “power” because the agressive male hijacks other male´s access to females by killing the males. This prompts the dinosaurs because larger muscle mass and shaper weaponry is better at killing off competitors. Amongst the dinosaurs there was the mother-offspring bond, placed there by evolution for the evolutionary benefits a mother gets from seeing an offspring survive to adulthood. This bond mutated to involve flock-members because a group working together out-competes any individualists when fighting over anything. The next main event was that someone mapped the flock, in his brain, as a hierarchy (up-down-axis) with the longing to dominate peers.
Jonatan Mustonen
Posted on
07/05/2017
07/05/2017
Categories
Most important posts
Leave a comment
on imp 2017 complete semi-book
Can we
timetravel? We can proceed from era to era, just like dinosaurs preceded man and not vice versa – its a universal sequence on any planet.
Heaven/karma instinctual but collides with main picture.
Water, primordial soup, proteins, dns strand. Single cell reproducing multiplying. Then 1 of these cells thought “ill inject my own dna into some other cell”, hijack its reproductive system. Very beneficial. So first there were 3 rules: life n death, number of offspring matters and mutation in each generationshift, then with viruses came the 4th rule “power” – hijacking others’ reproductive system. Then theres an arms race between viruses and … “Our kind of” organism, so to mutate our immune system faster two genders arose. Then fights between males led to the dinosaurs. Then brains bonded into groups to fight individualists. Then capitalist power struggles within the group made the brain grow larger, we’re good at planning and remembering things. Then we get to kingdoms. From the water puddle to the 21 st century. Those who proceed to the next era will live in a world where holy book-group bonds are weak and a universal courses group bond is the strongest, thus national wars or civilizational wars where identity is based on other than this science will be impossible. The planet has two future ways to go 60 years from now and one is better but needs some investment of time until everybody knows this course.
Theres a universal course/book thats on every advanced enough planet throughout the universe and at the regeneration of every universe. If you consider the entire corpus of human knowledge, youd find 3 rational starting points: certain truth, nothingness and that reality is one. Just like dinosaurs predate humans the first chapter with the 3 starting points predate the connecting of “i think n i exist, distinction” and “reality is one, antidistinction. Which leads to that there is more to reality than can be contemplated meaning that its infinite. Thats chaper 2: like multiplication and division are much higher levels of mathematics than adding and subtracting, chaper 2 is higher than the starting points in chapter 1.
———
If you want to be altruistic/selfless you can think about the millions of lives lost or living as refugees due to religious wars and group-loyalties based on ideology/religion. What if group-loyalty could be, for everyone, based on a single universal ideology? Then friendship ties, shared histories, well-mixing personalities and the like would form groups that don´t have a religious mission/an ideological drive. When all ideologies are erased – and religions too – then simple biological mechanisms like common goals, shared interests and family ties bind us together – and those kind of conglomerations are more likely to disintegrate than if there is a holy book or any ideological book as the binding principle between people. If ISIS would be educated then it would disintegrate and many civil wars break out among different families in Iraq/Syria – but there would not be this major cleft between western&modern and holy&dogmatic.
If you want to be selfish like Ayn Rand: the upcoming world order / economy will be a meritocracy based on who advances or knows the most science. The ancient Chinese had a government where even the lowest peasant, if he passed a test in Confuscious´ teachings, could elevate himself higher in the society. Hierarchy is based on what is objectively to be admired; hierarchy is based on what infinitely many extraterrestrials in consensus have agreed upon be the criteria for how a human´s thoughts should be wired; hierarchy is based on the universe´s disposition to reward those with the most accurate world-view or whom advance the pre-existing world-view and spread it to others – the universe wants us choose to elevate in the hierarchy those whom appriciate the universe most fully, wholistically and most accurately. The old power-system based on money is upheld by banks and is based on present day humans´ ties to the past. There will be an overlap between the old bank-based system for establishing VIP-status and the new economy which is a meritocracy based on science. If we want to be like planets ahead of us in the evolution of history, we ought to adapt the meritocracy-economy. After a few generations inherited money seems less legitimate than knowing or advancing science and by doing so wiring one´s cortex (flexible thinking part of the brain) as universally as possible (as much like the consensus among extraterrestrials is as possible).
There are three universal starting points for the universal course which will wire your brain universally. What I mean by “universal” is that:
A) it is based on science meaning that it is retrievable from anywhere at any time; it is available universally unlike some time-specific language-specific location-specific holy-book-revalation.
B) universal means that it is how aliens/extraterrestrials sooner or later wire their brains. Sure: they can choose to live in a multi-worldviewical world but sooner or later the truth will conquer meaning that all various ideas among every tribe or nation will congregate (like a lens focuses many beams of light into one focal point) into a single set of ideas and prioritarizations – a single world-view will emerge from the many. It is the identical world-view that all civilizing planets will congregate to/toward because science is universal. This congregating is as much of a universal step in evolution as that a planet with water will eventually have bacteria. Eventually everyone will know the course and the idea of this book. “What do you believe?” will no longer be a question because everyone has wired their cortex´s ideas based on universal ideas/science.
——–
Am I a muslim?
I have my size-time-diagram into which everything fits and this diagram being infinite gives an existential theory because:
– sizes justify (are the cause of) one another, so there´s infinite justification.
– time is infinite and our universe is observed to become nothingness in the future, and nothingness would be absurd if not for the fact that in the smallest spaces energymass is summoned because E=mc2 is a stable, constant law of nature.
– there can only be separate distinct entities if distinction is counter-balanced and happens in non-distinction (a singular Reality). This point is much like the previous point of that only in nothingness can somethingness be summoned.
God, then, if we are to look for a meaning for the word, cannot be:
– a specific object, size nor time within something infinitely larger
– cannot, by definition, be apart from and “beyond” [that of which all is part] (Reality). Reality being an infinite size- and time-range of energymasspacetime is enough of an existential theory to explain us being here, the Big Bang, and the rest of the questions. God would, if claimed to be “beyond” the existential theory, be an unnecessary unproven assumption but more to the point: God would be “unreal” if Reality is defined as we define it here. Such “beyond Reality”-gods are unreal. What´s more is that the phrase “Allah akbar” (God is the biggest/greatest) wouldn´t be true if Reality/[that of which all is part] is God plus Reality – if [that of which all is part] has two major components, God and an energymasspacetime sizerange etc (the existential theory), then the sum of those two components is greater than God.
God, thus, obviously means Reallity by the definition of God being the greatest. God is then infinite. It makes sense to see people in awe over how much they can study, when they know there´s infinitely many fields of science which we do not have access to but which are logical and necessities for Reality to hold together. There being nothing absurd in an infinite size-range that resembles our known size-range (from quantum physics to the visible universe) is awesome and the highest you could possibly worship. This again proves that God is just a synonym for Reality/the existential theory.
Having studied all fields of science i.e. all sizes is the known sizerange, seeing how they all make up (justify) eachother (that it´s just zooming in and zooming out), the wisdom that the sizerange is infinite (that there are infinitely many sizes making up one another) from the distinction (I think & I am logical path) and anti-distinction (that Reality is one) -thing, is the reason why we exist and God is not some size (sizes are not minds, except through evolution). Having studied all known sizes and knowing that the sizerange is infinite: it is an explanation to why we´re here (akin to the Adam and Eve story or “God created earth in 6 days” story) but it is not a revalation-giving thing – the Quran wasn´t written by God because God is not the kind of thing that writes/dictates stories. God being an infinite sizerange as thus our Creator is true, but the true way to get knowledge, rituals/pictoral representations and even guidance is through my work, not the work of the holy book-writers. The holy book writers might have said something true about God (just like I do in my work) – but that is true of science textbooks moreso – and they all said false things such as that God talks/gives revalations/authors holy books.
I can see the bronze-age marketing-team´s standpoint: people are more prone to follow dictates if they´re said to come from something/someone “higher than human” i.e. a God or a ghost/spirit. Being invisible in as nonsense-a-way as some rituals are, is great for marketing. Everyone knows how humans thing – they´re themselves human; we are only partly rational (a computer is rational) in what we think – all our animal lusts bias or interrupt the thoughts that are as logical as they get, but they´re always going to be based against an evolutionary background just like the pitfall that my abstract diagram-including infinity-mentioning world-view is more like algebra than “what a world-view (context in which we are) should be thinking about that we lived for millions of years on the savannah, only needing to know (in one´s world-view) where the water-source is or whom stands under whom in the social hierarchy. We´ve mapped geographies, the use-based properties of objects/tools and personalities (and still do) for a gazillion years – only with the advent of science SOME of us achieved higher i.e. used their evolved meager toolkit with all its biases to scetch out something like the theory of evolution in the 1800s. Looking at the evolution of [what we use our memory for]/how we map our surroundings/our world-view, before we mapped social relationships we mapped geographies. Before we mapped the functions of inventions (tools) our map only contained caveman tools (sharp stones and spears). The next step is to map one´s context as an infinite size-time-diagram (where size and time are really the same, but abstract thinking allows us to separate them into two distinct axises) or energymasspacetime (with its´ many laws of nature found in every school textbook in the world) and the distinction-antidistinction-
thing which feels so awkward/abstract that one wonders why one needs it as pillar 3 of the existential theory: the answer is: it wasn´t invented (the words “I see a distinct object” or “why is there distinction?” weren´t said in the same breath as “Reality is one” or “energymass and spacetime unite”) until I did it in the 21st century). It might seem trivial to mention that separate entities exist in a singular Reality – it´s so obvious (that´s why no-one cared to make a big fuzz out of inventing it) but it makes the existential theory have three pillars (all of which can seem obvious) and not 4 – there´s nothing more to add to the existential theory once you´ve added the obvious “separation in antidistinction”-statement. I want to know how aliens (the infinitely many of them, steered by science toward an incommon path) think because its synonymous to finding a TRUE “key to history” (Marx thought the key was equality, Hitler thought the key was racial superiority and a brutally competative relationship between races, Capitalism thinks it´s freedom (less government), some might think they “key to history” is to fund technological development). “How aliens think” is a shorthand way of saying “the key to history” or “what will happen next/eventually and in hindsight seen as akin to the era of ancient grecoroman culture, the Industrial Revolution or the Digital revolution)”. It´s what we´re steered towards; it´s the closest thing we get to divine guidance. It´s simply universal (drawn on science and practiced by infinitely many aliens) guidance/suggestions/
recommendations that we, as a species, can choose to promogate and thus “follow” or if we´ll stick to multiculturalism´s many -ism´s like political quran-based islamism or christian-based “the holy book gave me this”-morality and codes of conduct. Some -ism´s are dangerous (like quran-based politics and law) while some -ism´s like christianity give too much credit to the -ism for simple human decency (in an age of extreme wealth globally). When my tummy is full I´m a decent person – I try to make money but I´m not desparate after extreme wealth because I know that my caveman-brain´s “need” for power (through status-symbols and freedom of space my environment to maximize the effectiveness of my hobby (writing)) won´t get satisfied no matter what external extravaganzas trigger my eyeballs, nor can people (socializing) make me much more satisfied than I am right now because all that is interesting and that there is to people is their brain – and after a few weeks together there´ll be nothing I know nor any mental tool that I use that won´t, despite copyright, be in the hands of my friend: we won´t talk science (me teaching him/her) after all the science has been taught. I don´t care to teach trivia so when I say “I teach SCIENCE” I mean a finite thing: the existential theory plus something from each level of the known sizerange. Getting a P.hD from specializing on finding the structure of a rare protein only found in the feet of Amazonian forrest-mice is to put your eyes too close to the diagram; P.hDs for specializing/having a very narrow topic for one´s mind to engage in are for people who don´t see the forest for the trees and care to rather look at one leaf of one tree instead of thinking about and seeing the forest as a whole. I´m a forest person – a leaf 10 cm from my eyes just bugs me. That´s why there is a finite repertoire to what I call “science” – it takes a few days for me (my accomplishment/my work) to be fully understood and if repeated repetative. One only needs to know why/where one exists (the existential theory) once – one can´t forget it because we are made to remember the very context in which we live (here an evolutionary bias helps us: when someone explains “what the world is” we remember it because “what the world was” in caveman days was the most useful thing the brain could do – in fact we evolved such large brains because bigger brains remember better (can moreso map social relationships, successfull or unsuccesfull learning-experiences). We want to climb upwards in the hierarchy, find a mate, etc but all these wants and needs would be useless (they´d having nothing to work on) if it weren´t for the map (of social relationships etc) that our brain is capable of remembering. We are inclined to remember existential theories because such knowledge about our place in the context was as useful as mapping whom is married to whom. This bias, by the way, is something holy book writers used to get people interested in their book. “God created earth in 6 days (not 5)” is memorable because of our bias toward wanting to know about “creation of the world” – so the number “6 days” is remembered too because it adds to the map that we then work on to seek power and other evolutionary benefits. It´s hard to make plans that have one reach evolutionary benefits if one does not know one´s environment/the external world. “6 days for creating this place/world” adds to one´s map of the environment/place/external world. We have a bias for remembering it. Too bad the bronze-age holy books used this marketing trick (“hey, let´s say something about their world (like the creation of it) because that would be something they remember!”) to give pseudo- existential theories. The holy books made sales because not only do people want information about their context, people also want God to talk and interfere with day-to-day personal activites. Once you have a pseudo-explanation for how/why the world was created, you´re free to add to that pseudo-explanation that “the creator talks”. It´s impossible to add such a talking thing to my existential theory – not only is it unnecessary (my theory works stand-alone) but it also contradicts basically every concept of my existential theory. The very definitions of energymasspacetime (meaning that God had nothingness as the canvas to paint on – a nothingness that needs energymass and summons it because of the laws of nature inherent in that nothingness – and chose to paint a beginning with as-dense-as-can-be (just like E=mc2 would´ve created it because E=mc2 is true in the smallest spaces). Where was God when this happened? Couldn´t have been energymass because energymass is only summoned once the universe becomes pure nothingness. If God is not energymass and energymass is existence – then God doesn´t exist / God is nothing. What doesn´t exist or is nothing doesn´t give revalations to men, doesn´t care whom you sleep with, etc. Is God or God´s heaven a location in our size of infinite spacetime? In that case God is simply a far-away alien (which warrants questions about its evolution) but again – it doesn´t talk to us because of the distance and we wouldn´t be too impressed even if an evolved God did talk to us (we are quite like it – our science is the same, our world-view is the same). God is not a location in a size but is God a size? The sizerange is infinite (as proven by distinction not being able to see antidistinction) and that´d mean that there´s a creator to God (and that thing too has a creator, ad infinitum) IN THE SAME WAY as humans built cities or atoms make molecules. Again, if God is a size it warrant´s the question: is God every location of that size or is God, like humans, in a location of that size? Whatever be the case, God still couldn´t communicate with us. Since God fits neither in the context of energymasspacetime nor the context of the sizerange, a God-theory absolutely contradicts the true theory. What is said about God – that God is the greatest – makes only one “location”/notion in the existential theory correspond to a non-talking uncaring God: the theory itself (and more precisely Reality/[that of which all is part]) is the greatest. It certainly doesn´t hear/talk nor give revalations because it comes as an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime. When you tell this science, you can get to the point where you define Reality as “that of which all is part” and the greatest – you can even get to antidistinction/the unrepresentability of Reality (fully, because we do represent some things) and people might still hope that a talking God can exist. But as soon as you mention the less abstract (the more abstract was that [that of which all is part cannot be observed]), the God-theory either surrenders or is in conflict with a/the existential theory which certainly is true (anyone can verify how the components of the theory fit together, make sense and explain everything). God as a synonym for Reality is boring – why do we even have two words if we mean the same (scientific sizerange) thing.
If you assume that God is a synonym for Reality (which comes as an infinite sizescale, which in turn predicts a DNA-strand somewhere and voila: everything is explained), then I believe in your God. It doesn´t appriciate my appriciation of it though, nor do rituals, following rules (made by men) etc please it. If I am to “show my appriciation to it” I do it by writing as I do right now – that´s my worship of it: but I´m under no illusion that this writing would please God by being logical (eventhough Reality itself is logical too – so we have something incommon) – me writing can be called worship but the only appriciating recipients of my writing are me and readers of my text. Whatever I write about Reality/God doesn´t please God (because God is not a thing that listens, likes worship by others and other human needs) – whatever worshippers do, I hope they do it for themselves and for other humans because no-one else is able to care or comprehend the worship. I would do the muslim prayer if I felt that that kind of discipline would benefit me (and a few times I did get a good feeling from going to the mosque and being among worshippers). It´s so easy to adapt to the customs of one´s peers (and especially one´s superiors, if one believes that there are those) that my attitude toward worship/ritual is “when in Rome, do like the romans (if you or others gain something out of it)”. The world is complex – I could have the same attitude toward the beliefs of islam: that I´ll just say that something is through eventhough it obviously isn´t because it contradicts, say, a talking holy book-writing God. Could I make myself believe that something talkative is God? The belief disintegrates and I get the foul feeling of that I´ve used my valuable memory to note down a lie everytime I would think just one step/association further from the belief itself. I can believe (in anything) but analyzing it even the smallest amount will make me disbelieve it. But when you´re in the mood of not analyzing – like when one is having a panic attack on one´s death-bed – I´ll be (extremely) simplistic and do what some people seem to always do: “believe (in something that breaks down when analyzed)”. What confuses me is that some people believe all the time – they seem perfectly sane but they believe in a talking, scripture-giving God (that doesn´t fit anywhere in the existential theory). Do they need comfort (from untruth) all the time? It seems like they´re trying to argue their position, though. A perplexing phenomenon at first glance but when you consider that they´re uneducated about my existential theory, any theory will do (even a talking God-theory). I am not hateful of it when I see it in other people – I see it as humorous/ridicilous – but when it binds people together (to form what in essence is an army) and there´s many of them (10 000 religions/”armies”) the world´s got a problem. Binding people together through their shared scripture and their belief that something impossible is true is bad because groups tend to be more violent than individualists – especially if their holy text 1) seems to bind billions of people to their army (morale-strength amplification in a group is the root of violence), and 2) preaches violence/disrespect (many holy books are xenophobic and eager to create an “us vs. them”-social dynamic). If the holy book is taken seriously (if it can´t be thrown in the trash) then we have bronze-age xenophobia (based on who likes the book and who doesn´t) creeping into the modern day, and we also have artificial bonding/loyalty – we basically get groups who are hostile (or more disrespectful) toward anyone who doesn´t see the point (“there´s a talking God”) they´re promoting. It´s such an easily fixable problem: if you read my work you simply cannot believe in a talking God – my professional role is that you can give me ANY individual and I can “convert” him/her into not believing in a talking God. Whether this person will follow his or her group´s rituals or codes of conduct, though, is up to them – it´s sheer peer pressure.
The “us vs. them” “we are a big group” (and especially) “we should convert the whole world so that they use their precious memory for knowing nonsense like we do” are such great reasons for violence – and of course it´s fixable because what these people lack is education: only where there is no theory, can a pseudo-theory take root. Only where there is no argument/debate/science can “God talks” seem like legitimate truth. This means that much of the world´s violence is due to a lack of education (about the big questions i.e. what I talk about). Sure: some religions can be interpreted to say “kill the infidels” or some other explicit declaration of war – but it´s hard for a religion to survive if it constantly preaces fighting (it must have more clever tactics than that – but it does tend to seek world-dominion). I´m not so worried that someone reads the Quran and thinks “I´ll help the [unbelieves in the Quran´s talking God] to get to hell faster, because the Quran says that that´s where they belong”. I am worried about that the Quran (or any holy book) is the glue that binds people together. Religion is the last glue before we enter an era where obviously arbitrary things like nationalism or language makes strangers feel more familiar with eachother. Nation and language aren´t taken that seriously – nor should religion be, but it is. This binding-effect that holy books have is what makes ISIS / the taliban etc so hard to defeat – they think, not only that they have an all-seeing revalation-giving God on their side, but they also have the exact same copy of a book that a billion people have. They feel strong (with their, seemingly to them, superior numbers). Obviously ISIS underestimated the ability of the Quran to draw in arab nations into the fight over Iraq & Syria – the modern world simply leaned on the fact that ISIS are not muslims because they interpret the bronze-age ramble wrong. But ISIS / the taliban is still a factor – the quran binds too many people together in certain areas of the world – violence is caused, due to the binding-effect, the “moral superiority”-effect, the “power in numbers and billions of people read the Quran”-effect etc (all these effects are there even if you skip the parts about the talking God who word for word said the Quran) make men as prone to violence as anything can make them: they´re a group with an “us vs. them” dogma & feeling and they feel like they have power in numbers. Add to that the frustration over having to finance an own home before one can ejaculate. Those circumstances can make the group take up arms and “send the infidels where they belong”. Following the commandments frustrates, the whole notion of “let´s all prioritize this text highest (our favorite book) so that we´re bound together” and that the text itself can be interpreted as violent all are a breeding-ground for trouble – and when you´re in the trouble that the text creates, you are not in the state of mind to do the internal debate necessary to disprove a talking God and thus make your whole way of life become something that you either do as meaningless fun or don´t do because no-one cares. But just as some people want to become professional soccer players and some atheists do zen-meditation, humans (by personal preference) want hobbies, to take up a discipline, to do something that adds, say, pride to their life. I don´t personally care about soccer and I don´t feel pride from doing any ritual, but I can definitely see that others take the muslim prayers like an athlete takes their sport. It´s possible to find out the objective truth about whether these prayers “please God or not” (by, like I´ve done in this text, disproving all kinds of false Gods and making the real God more mundane and not a talker). Rituals don´t please Reality/”the energymasspacetime sizerange” because it is not a thing that gets pleased – it´s like trying to please a rock. You do the prayers because you enjoy the pride/hobby for its own sake – like someone doing sports likes his/her sport. Pleasing a rock/God to get to a “heaven” (which too doesn´t fit into the true existential theory) is stupid unless it´s akin to a hobby/sport where you do it for doing it´s sake. Same thing with the “heaven hates ham”-thing – when you know enough science (enough = what I´ve written so far in this text) you´ll realize that the whole ham-prohibition is man-made (from the bronze age) and linked to some pre-scientific nonsense from-the-horse´s-mouth-
statement (can´t say rationale because it´s dogma). If you (and secondarily your peers) are dedicated to nonsense (whether it be sports, stamp-collecting, memorizing capitals or not eating pork), then do it if it does something good like prove to yourself (and others) that you have a strong discipline (even though your effort is misdirected toward nonsense). I can invent a ritual and do it every day, and maybe I´d feel pride over that I can keep to a schedule of nonsense, but I would never claim the theory that there is a talking God, and by extention I wouldn´t say that that ficticious talker prohibited ham. The mundane action must be differentiated from the logical argument. Ham-prohibitions and talking Gods are artifacts that belong in the past – modern white A4-paper is too beautiful for someone to write something as erroneous as “there is a talking God” on it. But as I´m writing this, people are dying because religion binds them together (and frustrates them, and boosts their war-morale in many ways). My work can cause a civil war within ISIS – a civil rift so permiating that only family ties, friendships and common goals (to get money, not to spread islam) can keep people together in groups. Once my existential theory is known there will still be crime and instability in Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan, but the evil deeds will only be committed by groups of 2-3 people – not 20 000 of them. The binding effect of the Quran can most clearly be seen in that internet-propaganda made Quran-readers from the USA and Europe go fight in Syria – everyone wants a group and it´s totally human to assume that knowing the same book will be enough for a bond to be as strong as one wants it to be.
Right now “my work” is 9 proper texts and a few videos. They all talk about the same thing (which can be formulated as: I´ll say as much as I can about things I´ve never heard anyone else say (and I´ve seen the best professors in the world teaching truths)). To cause a rift in the taliban/ISIS and stop the war by making group-bonding (around a holy book) problematic/impossible, my whole “work” doesn´t need to be dropped as propaganda books on top of ISIS and the taliban. It´s enough that the news headlines say that “a correct all-explaining existential theory has been found – religions in crysis” or that enough people know my theory so that a multitude of youtube videos are made where, in a sentence or two, the presenter goes off-topic and mentions why we exist / something from my theory. Having understood it once makes it impossible to forget – having understood it once makes group-bonding over religion (which fuels ISIS/the taliban/etc) impossible. If the world could just take 20 minutes of its´ time to spend on explaining/teaching/arguing my work/theory, then the war on terror would be over – otherwise it will persist as long as people have no actual, logical theory about their existence and thus believe in bronze-age marketing tricks.
——-
The theory of evolution begins with the first reproducing shape. It was a shape that assembled surrounding mass into a similar shape. The existential theory predicts the existence of infinitely many such shapes. What inevitable becomes true when you have reproduction is that some die and some survive (life and death), that the number of offspring that shape make matters and that there is mutations over time. This is true about the shape´s offspring: some will die and some will survive, the number of offspring they make matters and the offspring can be different from the original shape. These three rules / laws of nature were inactive before the first reproduction occurred. The next main event was that one of these shapes found that if it injected its DNA into other shapes´ reproductive mechanism, it exploited principle number two: that the number of offspring matters. It was the first virus: it hijacked others´ reproduction. The rule / law of nature that came into play with this event was that “power” matters: hijacking others´ reproductive mechanism gives evolutionary benefits. Now we´ve listed the four main rules that govern evolutionary theory: first came the three first, and then came the forth: power. The next main event – to guard against viruses taking over all life / reproductive mechanisms – was that an immune system evolved to protect against virus´ hijack attempts. This required multicellularism. Just like immune systems prompt/require multicellularism, immune systems prompt/require multigenderedism: to win in the arms race against quickly mutating viruses two genders arose to amplify the mutations to the immune system. Mixing genes from two genders creates a more mutated immune system, which can keep ahead in the arms race against quickly-mutating viruses “trying” to mutate to bypass any immune system. The next main event is that one of these multicellular organisms – a fish or worm – of the male gender mutated to be agressive and defeat other males in battle. He would´ve gotten access to many more females than his non-agressive counter-parts. This too can be called “power” because the agressive male hijacks other male´s access to females by killing the males. This prompts the dinosaurs because larger muscle mass and shaper weaponry is better at killing off competitors. Amongst the dinosaurs there was the mother-offspring bond, placed there by evolution for the evolutionary benefits a mother gets from seeing an offspring survive to adulthood. This bond mutated to involve flock-members because a group working together out-competes any individualists when fighting over anything. The next main event was that someone mapped the flock, in his brain, as a hierarchy (up-down-axis) with the longing to dominate peers.
Posted on
07/05/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
Dude, evolution has me try to maximize evolutionary benefits using my plans; im always thinking at full speed and pain drives that thinking. And i know for certain that all this pain is meaningless. Its a suicide recipe but what prevents me from suicide is the natural strength that stems from being the pinnacle of beasts who all have survived for generations.
Posted on
05/05/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
Audios
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/Voice-005.m4a
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/Voice-006.m4a
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/Voice-008.m4a
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/Voice-009.m4a
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/Voice-010.m4a
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/Voice-003.m4a
Posted on
05/05/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Audios
My religion is to bitchslap Reality and then laugh about the attempt to bitchslap it.
Bön (=skratt) i storlek-tid. Stressen går ut = det är det helande miraklet. Den heliga skriften är ett skämt.
Jag gör en beskrivning av verkligheten, skrattar åt meningslösheten/grymheten/depressionen i den. T.ex. “storlek-tid”.
Vapnet i det heliga kriget är humor.
Posted on
04/05/2017
04/05/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
New book 2017
Chapter 1:
What problem does this solve?
This solves a problem that becomes most visible 60 years from now when sea-levels rise, the economy goes into permanent decline and oil ends. That´s when humans start to fight (and belong in world-view-based groups to do so). While the economy is still rising the clashes are few and far between – Afghanistan, Syria, ISIS´ world-wide terror attacks (mainly muslim world-views clashing with tolerant world-views). When the economy starts declining there´ll naturally be more friction between groups, and groups are made up of world-views (people identify as in a group based on world-view).
Advancing the scientific world-view to the level where it explains our origin and thus invades religious intellectual turf, solves the problem of world-views colliding as war.
Chapter 2:
Certain truth – I think & I am
You have a composite certain truth consisting of two certain truths: you can claim as certain that you think (because if you were being fooled: being fooled is thinking) and that you exist (because being fooled requires the one who is fooled to be there). I think and I exist is one statement but two truths. You can certainly claim to have “distinction” because you´re dealing with multiple separate distinct entities (such as “I” and “thought”). One could put it, while seeing the certain truths “I think” and “I exist”, that the space between the two notions (thinker and thought) is the hallmark of distinction. The distance separating thinker from thought we can recognize as necessary for “distinction” to be concluded as a certain truth arising, in a next logical step, from the original primary certain truth.
Everyone agrees they they themselves exist, because if one would get fooled in everyone one can be fooled in then one would exist there anyway and be fooled. So one knows that one exists. Then one also knows that one thinks because “to get fooled” is a thought-process. Thus we have two things: I think and I exist. And the distinction between them: and on the flipside of the paper we have the opposite of that: anti-distinction, and this can also be called “that of which all is part”/Reality. And since we are in the distinction-side of the paper when we see something; when we see something there is distinction between us and that thing. Thus we cannot represent or see that which is on the other side of the paper i.e. that of which all is part / Reality. Nothing can represent – because it is distinct – Reality. So whatever which is distinct cannot… whatever that is observed or represented is distinct and therefore is not… therefore does not represent Reality / “that of which all is part”. So we have distinction and anti-distinction as opposing poles.
You have a certain truth which everyone in the whole world agrees upon. You think and you exist since if you were being fooled by an almighty demon you´d still both think and exist. Then there are two things i.e. distinction. All is part of a single reality which is anti-distinction, there are no separate parts: reality is one. If we put distinction on the left side of the paper and anti-distinction on the right side then (we) distinction cannot see that of which all is part because “to see” is “to represent” and then one uses something to refer to reality. There is nothing outside reality which can refer to reality but instead reality is defined as “that of which all is part” and then there is nothing that can refer to all of reality. The opposition between the two sides of the paper (distinction & anti-distinction) makes reality as “that of which all is part”-anti-distinction non-representable because representation always involves distinction. What we see, for example, is just parts of reality. The hypotheses can be infinitely much so there is infinitely much to reality. Sizes and times, that is. In the existential theory (“why we exist”) there, thus, is an infinite size-range with time, energymass in spacetime (everything and nothing intertwined like in the E=mc2 equation – energy equals mass times, well – spacetime; multiplication is what unites energymass with spacetime). Then we have distinction and anti-distinction: separate things but all is part of a single reality. The existential theory with its three pillars, that is an infinite sizerange, energymasspacetime and distinction-anti-distinction-opposition, predicts that there should be a tiny piece of DNA which copies itself.
Then there´s another kind of revelation that got respect. Descartes who lived in the 1600s got respect, fame and was invited to live with the Queen of Sweden because he had gotten an idea which certainly told us something true. Revelations can either be con men´s statements like they were from ape-man and forward, or they can actually claim something which is verifyably true. Descartes, propably having his mind overcrowded by the masses of revelations that had accumulated to his time, asked: “what would be true if all my statements were false?”. What would remain if I tossed all my knowledge and ideas into the trash? Are we stuck with countless unverifyable statements, some contradicting eachother, not knowing which ones are true and which ones are not? Obviously not since statements about architecture are obviously true since they build houses, while contradictory statements do not. So Descartes dared to throw all his knowledge in the trash to see what remained. He found certain truth: that he exists – because even if he was wrong or was being fooled in everything he thought to be true, there´d still be a “he” there. He certainly exists no matter what. Same thing goes for thoughts: being wrong or being fooled is a thinking-process so even if he was wrong or was being fooled in everything he thought, there´d still be thought.
Socrates: So he figured out that he thinks and he exists.
God: These are not one statement – they are two.
Socrates: What does that mean?
God: I´ll tell you later – just agree with me that there is distinction between thinker and thought – that the statements are two. It´s building on certain truth, and it´s possible to build a whole… whatever it is that “saves the world” from the coming economic decline by having everyone build on certain truth until the God-debate is settled. Remembering “distinction” (between thinker and thought) will prevent the horror-scenario of large-scale future wars between people group-bound by religions, and instead – since everyone built a whole world-view on certain truth – have a more stable decline in the future. “Distinction” i.e. remembering that there are two certain truths (thinker and thought) is a step on the way toward a plan that will save humanity from destroying itself as much as it would if we didn´t build our world-views on certain truth.
Plato: So after an era of “revelation”-revelations invented by anyone for whatever purpose, coming from Darwin´s ape-man´s revelations, Descartes, in the 1600s, invented a revelation – certain truth: I think and I exist – which got him invited to the Queen of Sweden for the rest of his life. People have always liked revelations and even verifyable truth-claims like Descartes´ get respect.
God: I have set it as true that each one of you humans can verify in your own mind´s eye that you do certainly exist and that there certainly is thought – and thus there is distinction.
Darwin: Distinction is an abstract word. That two objects are separate/different from one another is one of those notions and ape-man never made into language – there was never the evolutionary need to talk about “distinction”. Yes: one could say that one banana is different from another (and one wants the bigger one), but to have Distinction exist stand-alone as a distinct notion is abstract thinking and we are not evolved to do that. For millions of years the caveman word for “distinction” was only used in a sentance – not stand-alone as in “distinction certainly exists because thinker and thought are both certain truths”.
Chapter 3:
Distinction-antidistinction-opposition
The first proof for that the size-time-diagram is infinite is distinction´s (our) inability to see/represent anti-distinction.
Chapter 4:
Maximum size?
The second prooof for that the size-time-diagram is infinite is that if we imagine a partless anti-distinction then it has no distinction as in a “maximum” or “minimum” size, i.e. the size-range is infinite.
Chapter 5:
Infinite size-time-diagram
Chapter 6:
Existential theory´s 3 pillars
Chapter 7:
Prediction of DNA
Posted on
04/05/2017
04/05/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on New book 2017
Posted on
27/04/2017
Categories
Most important posts
Leave a comment
on
Om anledningen till att religiösa krig fortsätter är att Jonatan inte fått en riskkapitalist att köpa volvo, villa, vovve för att skriva bättre… …så måste något radikalt göras, tänkar Jonatan när han röker på.
Posted on
26/04/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
Everyone agrees on that reality is one. Because it´s one nothing can represent it, because the representer too should be part of reality. That means that there is a size-time-diagram which is infinite. And that´s why we exist. Everyone agrees on this eventhough we are distinct unique individuals. We have this world-view incommon, with extraterrestrials too.
Posted on
26/04/2017
27/04/2017
Categories
Most important posts
Leave a comment
on
Pre
The text begins with certain truth, goes on to explaining why something exists rather than nothing (the existential theory – why we exist), and then goes on to evolutionary theory which is predicted by the existential theory and explains everday occurances.
Posted on
26/04/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Pre
Posts navigation
Page
1
Page
2
…
Page
13
Next page
Proudly powered by WordPress

Jonatan Mustonen – yonis1@gmail.com – A generalization of all existing science – the proof for that religion is unnecessary (like an appendix)
Skip to content
Jonatan Mustonen – yonis1@gmail.com
A generalization of all existing science – the proof for that religion is unnecessary (like an appendix)
Menu and widgets
Search for:
Recent Posts
imp 2017 complete semi-book
1112
1101
Audios
1088
Recent Comments
Dagbok/diary 1 april 2017 – Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
on
Action thriller scifi book
Archives
May 2017
April 2017
March 2017
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
January 2016
Categories
Dagbok
Most important posts
Old
OldDagbok
The book + diagrams
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.org
imp 2017 complete semi-book
The text begins with certain truth, goes on to explaining why something exists rather than nothing (the existential theory – why we exist), and then goes on to evolutionary theory which is predicted by the existential theory and explains everday occurances.
You know for certain that you think and that you exist because even if an almighty demon was fooling you in everything you can possibly be fooled in, the fooling itself is a thought-process and therefore you know that thought exists (you think), and for you to be fooled you have to exist and therefore you know “I exist”. Being fooled is thinking and a thinker is necessary for there to be someone to be fooled. So you know: no matter what, you think and you exist. Those are two things, right? They´re both part of the same brain and the thought-process can become the analytical toolkit/thinker, but still we recognize that there are distinct entities – there is distinction. This can also be called separation. What is distinction´s opposite, anti-distinction? It´s one reality; that of which all is part; it´s one and reality´s definition in the dictionary is that all is part of it. If we write distinction (thinker and thought) on the left side of the paper and anti-distinction (reality; that of which all is part; one) on the right side of the paper – can the left side see the right side? No, because of opposition between distinction and anti-distinction. Because of there always being an observer (a thinker) and thus distinction in every observation and thus anti-distinction can´t be represented/seen.
The brain evolved to deal with natural occurances – there was never an event in history where something invisible was to be contemplated and dealt with. Thus we seem to assume that the thought-process went wrong when we say that distinction/us can´t see anti-distinction/reality. But the thought-process didn´t go wrong: all that it means is that there is more to reality than can be represented. Regardless of how vaguely “represents” is defined, say a coffee cup – regardless of brains being involved – is assumed to try to represent that of which all is part, then anti-dinstinction – distinction – opposition (the opposition between distinction and it´s opposite) makes the representation incorrect. We can ask if there in an anti-distinct “thing” is a maximum size and thus distinction? No. Likewise, another proof for that the size-range is infinite is that we do sense something (our everyday world) and can make hypotheses ad infinitum, and yet nothing represents ALL OF reality. Reality i.e. size-time thus is infinite.
The infinite size-range is one pillar in the existential theory. Another pillar is energymass and spacetime being opposites but intertwined as in E=mc2 (where c2 refers to a speed which is space over time: spacetime). Multiplication joins energymass together with spacetime; nothing together with something/everything; existence together with non-existence. Why is there existence the shape of my body? Without going into the historical answer, one can explain it by saying that the body is something in (intertwined with) nothing, of a size in an infinite size-range (where the relationship between any two sizes (or objects of two sizes) is that they make sense of i.e. Justify one another). Then there too, as a third pillar, is distinction-anti-distinction-opposition i.e. We live in a single (not plural) reality but we see distinct/separate entities such as thinker and thought.
Speaking of spacetime, spacetime is the logical starting point for the time-based existential theory. Nothingness (empty space) need to prior justification nor reason to exist, because it doesn´t exist. In it, however, laws of nature are true i.e. It is not irrational / anti-logical, and among the many laws of nature there are those, including E=mc2, which mention energymass. Could energymass be “mentioned” without it existing? If yes, it would be absurd / anti-logical. Why would reality mention things that never exist? But since laws of nature are firm and because of our rule “what is mentioned must exist or must be summoned” we get, wherever (in the smallest spaces) that E=mc2 is mentioned, existence and thus dense existence: a big bang. The fact that galaxies are speeding away acceleratingly from one another leads to nothingness in the future, and with the middleman “laws of nature” again energymass is summoned as dense as can be. No time-delay between nothingness – laws of nature – energymass but as soon as a bordered (by event horizons which are determined by the finite speed of light) region becomes nothingness, a big bang occurs and eventually becomes nothingness bordered by event horizons again. This is the time-wise description of why energymass (which exists intertwined with spacetime as in E=mc2) starts dense and becomes nothingness, and repeats.
All of the above is a rival theory to “God created earth in 6 days and rested on the 7th”. It is unintuitive because it deals with things we didn´t have to deal with in evolution: invisible energymasspacetime/reality/anti-distinction as a part of reasoning. It also has a multi-reason cause for our existence: a time-wise rationale involving the beginning and end of the big bang combined with a 3-pillar existential theory which justifies size and energymass. It is abstract/scientific but can´t be reduced into simpler terms. It´s the lowest common denominator that everyone can believe in (regardless of religion).
How vaguely has reality defined ”to represent”?
Infinitely vaguely – anything can represent anything.
Is the representation/representer reality or Allah?
No.
Can anything represent that of which all is part?
No.
Then the size-time-diagram is infinite i.e. nothing represents reality. How many is it? How many is Allah? 1.
Did it say…, or did it write a book?
This disproves Allah.
Again: how much of reality can be represented by, say, a painting? The whole of it?
No, the whole of reality cannot be represented. Just like Allah can´t be captured in a picture/word.
We can have hypotheses – how many hypotheses can we have?
If reality is sizes & times, energymass and spacetime then the square-shaped size-time-diagram with energymasspacetime in each coordinate is the universal way to represent all there is to represent.
Does it write books? No, it is not of such authorship-kind nature.
“God said to Muhammed word by word…” is thus a false or at most metaphorical statement.
“You have to do rituals in order not to go to hell, and in heaven you get 72 virgins” is by the same logic also a false claim.
There are three alternatives as the foundation for this logic – can you think of a 4
th
one?
1: Reality is a synonym for Allah
2: or Allah doesn´t exist
3: or there are 72 virgins (not an alternative because reality is not of the nature, because it is size-time-energymasspacetime, to write books).
In addition to the square size-time diagram with infinity symbols in each of it´s corners, and the evolutionary triangle which designates that life becomes more complex as time goes on (the triangle originates at the central size of the known size-range), there is the following brain diagram:
The existential theory with its three pillars, that is an infinite sizerange, energymasspacetime and distinction-anti-distinction-opposition, predicts that there should be a tiny piece of DNA which copies itself. When we have a tiny piece of DNA which copies itself we have three rules which come into play: that some survive and others die, that the number of copies you make has significance and that there is mutation (changes over generation-shifts). These three rules god said directly when the first copying/reproduction occurred. Then these single-celled organisms copy themselves for a while. Then there´s an organism which invents that it can inject its DNA into others´ cells – a virus. It then uses a new mechanism which takes advantage of the reproductive mechanism in other cells. This phenomenon of using others´ reproductive mechanism to make one´s own offspring we can call “power”. First came the three rules – survive, offspring and mutation – then some millions of years passed, then came the worth rule (hijack someone else´s reproductive system like viruses do). Rule number four came first later – it exploits rule number two (that the number of offspring has significance). Then we have viruses and “normal” organisms, and there´s an arms race between them: the viruses mutate and the only way for our organisms to win is for them to become multicellular and get an immune system. And how do you gain more mutations to the immune system? Well, you have two genders. So two-genderedness came from combating viruses – one mutates one´s immune system more. When we have two genders there is the difference that girls have one egg while the males have lots of sperm and then the guys start fighting each other to get the girls. Then it´s the largest one with the sharpest teeth that wins and this happens generation after generation and thus we get the dinosaurs. Among the dinosaurs there was the bond between mother and offspring and it evolves to involve group-members because if a group and an individualist end up in a conflict (fight over resources, females and such) the group wins because it fights as a group instead of as an individual. It was an evolutionary benefit to mutate the mother-offspring-bond to involve group-members. Then someone in the group (now we have some kind of wolves or dogs) mutated the up-down-axis which we have inside our heads: socioeconomic status, the hierarchy, power. He wanted to create a political system where he recruits some males to protect him and themselves from the slaves that were kept outside the flock – that is the same organization which one has in dogs, walruses and humans. First we evolved the mother-offspring-bond, then evolution created the up-down-axis where our body is someone on it and we want upwards in it. One can see it with cells – cells which in space are distributed so that you have up and down and you have a strong urge to gain upwardness. The anatomy of power is important for the whole world to understand to cultivate civilization over short-term greed.
Again: The theory of evolution begins with the first reproducing shape. It was a shape that assembled surrounding mass into a similar shape. The existential theory predicts the existence of infinitely many such shapes. What inevitable becomes true when you have reproduction is that some die and some survive (life and death), that the number of offspring that shape make matters and that there is mutations over time. This is true about the shape´s offspring: some will die and some will survive, the number of offspring they make matters and the offspring can be different from the original shape. These three rules / laws of nature were inactive before the first reproduction occurred. The next main event was that one of these shapes found that if it injected its DNA into other shapes´ reproductive mechanism, it exploited principle number two: that the number of offspring matters. It was the first virus: it hijacked others´ reproduction. The rule / law of nature that came into play with this event was that “power” matters: hijacking others´ reproductive mechanism gives evolutionary benefits. Now we´ve listed the four main rules that govern evolutionary theory: first came the three first, and then came the forth: power. The next main event – to guard against viruses taking over all life / reproductive mechanisms – was that an immune system evolved to protect against virus´ hijack attempts. This required multicellularism. Just like immune systems prompt/require multicellularism, immune systems prompt/require multigenderedism: to win in the arms race against quickly mutating viruses two genders arose to amplify the mutations to the immune system. Mixing genes from two genders creates a more mutated immune system, which can keep ahead in the arms race against quickly-mutating viruses “trying” to mutate to bypass any immune system. The next main event is that one of these multicellular organisms – a fish or worm – of the male gender mutated to be agressive and defeat other males in battle. He would´ve gotten access to many more females than his non-agressive counter-parts. This too can be called “power” because the agressive male hijacks other male´s access to females by killing the males. This prompts the dinosaurs because larger muscle mass and shaper weaponry is better at killing off competitors. Amongst the dinosaurs there was the mother-offspring bond, placed there by evolution for the evolutionary benefits a mother gets from seeing an offspring survive to adulthood. This bond mutated to involve flock-members because a group working together out-competes any individualists when fighting over anything. The next main event was that someone mapped the flock, in his brain, as a hierarchy (up-down-axis) with the longing to dominate peers.
Jonatan Mustonen
Posted on
07/05/2017
07/05/2017
Categories
Most important posts
Leave a comment
on imp 2017 complete semi-book
Can we
timetravel? We can proceed from era to era, just like dinosaurs preceded man and not vice versa – its a universal sequence on any planet.
Heaven/karma instinctual but collides with main picture.
Water, primordial soup, proteins, dns strand. Single cell reproducing multiplying. Then 1 of these cells thought “ill inject my own dna into some other cell”, hijack its reproductive system. Very beneficial. So first there were 3 rules: life n death, number of offspring matters and mutation in each generationshift, then with viruses came the 4th rule “power” – hijacking others’ reproductive system. Then theres an arms race between viruses and … “Our kind of” organism, so to mutate our immune system faster two genders arose. Then fights between males led to the dinosaurs. Then brains bonded into groups to fight individualists. Then capitalist power struggles within the group made the brain grow larger, we’re good at planning and remembering things. Then we get to kingdoms. From the water puddle to the 21 st century. Those who proceed to the next era will live in a world where holy book-group bonds are weak and a universal courses group bond is the strongest, thus national wars or civilizational wars where identity is based on other than this science will be impossible. The planet has two future ways to go 60 years from now and one is better but needs some investment of time until everybody knows this course.
Theres a universal course/book thats on every advanced enough planet throughout the universe and at the regeneration of every universe. If you consider the entire corpus of human knowledge, youd find 3 rational starting points: certain truth, nothingness and that reality is one. Just like dinosaurs predate humans the first chapter with the 3 starting points predate the connecting of “i think n i exist, distinction” and “reality is one, antidistinction. Which leads to that there is more to reality than can be contemplated meaning that its infinite. Thats chaper 2: like multiplication and division are much higher levels of mathematics than adding and subtracting, chaper 2 is higher than the starting points in chapter 1.
———
If you want to be altruistic/selfless you can think about the millions of lives lost or living as refugees due to religious wars and group-loyalties based on ideology/religion. What if group-loyalty could be, for everyone, based on a single universal ideology? Then friendship ties, shared histories, well-mixing personalities and the like would form groups that don´t have a religious mission/an ideological drive. When all ideologies are erased – and religions too – then simple biological mechanisms like common goals, shared interests and family ties bind us together – and those kind of conglomerations are more likely to disintegrate than if there is a holy book or any ideological book as the binding principle between people. If ISIS would be educated then it would disintegrate and many civil wars break out among different families in Iraq/Syria – but there would not be this major cleft between western&modern and holy&dogmatic.
If you want to be selfish like Ayn Rand: the upcoming world order / economy will be a meritocracy based on who advances or knows the most science. The ancient Chinese had a government where even the lowest peasant, if he passed a test in Confuscious´ teachings, could elevate himself higher in the society. Hierarchy is based on what is objectively to be admired; hierarchy is based on what infinitely many extraterrestrials in consensus have agreed upon be the criteria for how a human´s thoughts should be wired; hierarchy is based on the universe´s disposition to reward those with the most accurate world-view or whom advance the pre-existing world-view and spread it to others – the universe wants us choose to elevate in the hierarchy those whom appriciate the universe most fully, wholistically and most accurately. The old power-system based on money is upheld by banks and is based on present day humans´ ties to the past. There will be an overlap between the old bank-based system for establishing VIP-status and the new economy which is a meritocracy based on science. If we want to be like planets ahead of us in the evolution of history, we ought to adapt the meritocracy-economy. After a few generations inherited money seems less legitimate than knowing or advancing science and by doing so wiring one´s cortex (flexible thinking part of the brain) as universally as possible (as much like the consensus among extraterrestrials is as possible).
There are three universal starting points for the universal course which will wire your brain universally. What I mean by “universal” is that:
A) it is based on science meaning that it is retrievable from anywhere at any time; it is available universally unlike some time-specific language-specific location-specific holy-book-revalation.
B) universal means that it is how aliens/extraterrestrials sooner or later wire their brains. Sure: they can choose to live in a multi-worldviewical world but sooner or later the truth will conquer meaning that all various ideas among every tribe or nation will congregate (like a lens focuses many beams of light into one focal point) into a single set of ideas and prioritarizations – a single world-view will emerge from the many. It is the identical world-view that all civilizing planets will congregate to/toward because science is universal. This congregating is as much of a universal step in evolution as that a planet with water will eventually have bacteria. Eventually everyone will know the course and the idea of this book. “What do you believe?” will no longer be a question because everyone has wired their cortex´s ideas based on universal ideas/science.
——–
Am I a muslim?
I have my size-time-diagram into which everything fits and this diagram being infinite gives an existential theory because:
– sizes justify (are the cause of) one another, so there´s infinite justification.
– time is infinite and our universe is observed to become nothingness in the future, and nothingness would be absurd if not for the fact that in the smallest spaces energymass is summoned because E=mc2 is a stable, constant law of nature.
– there can only be separate distinct entities if distinction is counter-balanced and happens in non-distinction (a singular Reality). This point is much like the previous point of that only in nothingness can somethingness be summoned.
God, then, if we are to look for a meaning for the word, cannot be:
– a specific object, size nor time within something infinitely larger
– cannot, by definition, be apart from and “beyond” [that of which all is part] (Reality). Reality being an infinite size- and time-range of energymasspacetime is enough of an existential theory to explain us being here, the Big Bang, and the rest of the questions. God would, if claimed to be “beyond” the existential theory, be an unnecessary unproven assumption but more to the point: God would be “unreal” if Reality is defined as we define it here. Such “beyond Reality”-gods are unreal. What´s more is that the phrase “Allah akbar” (God is the biggest/greatest) wouldn´t be true if Reality/[that of which all is part] is God plus Reality – if [that of which all is part] has two major components, God and an energymasspacetime sizerange etc (the existential theory), then the sum of those two components is greater than God.
God, thus, obviously means Reallity by the definition of God being the greatest. God is then infinite. It makes sense to see people in awe over how much they can study, when they know there´s infinitely many fields of science which we do not have access to but which are logical and necessities for Reality to hold together. There being nothing absurd in an infinite size-range that resembles our known size-range (from quantum physics to the visible universe) is awesome and the highest you could possibly worship. This again proves that God is just a synonym for Reality/the existential theory.
Having studied all fields of science i.e. all sizes is the known sizerange, seeing how they all make up (justify) eachother (that it´s just zooming in and zooming out), the wisdom that the sizerange is infinite (that there are infinitely many sizes making up one another) from the distinction (I think & I am logical path) and anti-distinction (that Reality is one) -thing, is the reason why we exist and God is not some size (sizes are not minds, except through evolution). Having studied all known sizes and knowing that the sizerange is infinite: it is an explanation to why we´re here (akin to the Adam and Eve story or “God created earth in 6 days” story) but it is not a revalation-giving thing – the Quran wasn´t written by God because God is not the kind of thing that writes/dictates stories. God being an infinite sizerange as thus our Creator is true, but the true way to get knowledge, rituals/pictoral representations and even guidance is through my work, not the work of the holy book-writers. The holy book writers might have said something true about God (just like I do in my work) – but that is true of science textbooks moreso – and they all said false things such as that God talks/gives revalations/authors holy books.
I can see the bronze-age marketing-team´s standpoint: people are more prone to follow dictates if they´re said to come from something/someone “higher than human” i.e. a God or a ghost/spirit. Being invisible in as nonsense-a-way as some rituals are, is great for marketing. Everyone knows how humans thing – they´re themselves human; we are only partly rational (a computer is rational) in what we think – all our animal lusts bias or interrupt the thoughts that are as logical as they get, but they´re always going to be based against an evolutionary background just like the pitfall that my abstract diagram-including infinity-mentioning world-view is more like algebra than “what a world-view (context in which we are) should be thinking about that we lived for millions of years on the savannah, only needing to know (in one´s world-view) where the water-source is or whom stands under whom in the social hierarchy. We´ve mapped geographies, the use-based properties of objects/tools and personalities (and still do) for a gazillion years – only with the advent of science SOME of us achieved higher i.e. used their evolved meager toolkit with all its biases to scetch out something like the theory of evolution in the 1800s. Looking at the evolution of [what we use our memory for]/how we map our surroundings/our world-view, before we mapped social relationships we mapped geographies. Before we mapped the functions of inventions (tools) our map only contained caveman tools (sharp stones and spears). The next step is to map one´s context as an infinite size-time-diagram (where size and time are really the same, but abstract thinking allows us to separate them into two distinct axises) or energymasspacetime (with its´ many laws of nature found in every school textbook in the world) and the distinction-antidistinction-
thing which feels so awkward/abstract that one wonders why one needs it as pillar 3 of the existential theory: the answer is: it wasn´t invented (the words “I see a distinct object” or “why is there distinction?” weren´t said in the same breath as “Reality is one” or “energymass and spacetime unite”) until I did it in the 21st century). It might seem trivial to mention that separate entities exist in a singular Reality – it´s so obvious (that´s why no-one cared to make a big fuzz out of inventing it) but it makes the existential theory have three pillars (all of which can seem obvious) and not 4 – there´s nothing more to add to the existential theory once you´ve added the obvious “separation in antidistinction”-statement. I want to know how aliens (the infinitely many of them, steered by science toward an incommon path) think because its synonymous to finding a TRUE “key to history” (Marx thought the key was equality, Hitler thought the key was racial superiority and a brutally competative relationship between races, Capitalism thinks it´s freedom (less government), some might think they “key to history” is to fund technological development). “How aliens think” is a shorthand way of saying “the key to history” or “what will happen next/eventually and in hindsight seen as akin to the era of ancient grecoroman culture, the Industrial Revolution or the Digital revolution)”. It´s what we´re steered towards; it´s the closest thing we get to divine guidance. It´s simply universal (drawn on science and practiced by infinitely many aliens) guidance/suggestions/
recommendations that we, as a species, can choose to promogate and thus “follow” or if we´ll stick to multiculturalism´s many -ism´s like political quran-based islamism or christian-based “the holy book gave me this”-morality and codes of conduct. Some -ism´s are dangerous (like quran-based politics and law) while some -ism´s like christianity give too much credit to the -ism for simple human decency (in an age of extreme wealth globally). When my tummy is full I´m a decent person – I try to make money but I´m not desparate after extreme wealth because I know that my caveman-brain´s “need” for power (through status-symbols and freedom of space my environment to maximize the effectiveness of my hobby (writing)) won´t get satisfied no matter what external extravaganzas trigger my eyeballs, nor can people (socializing) make me much more satisfied than I am right now because all that is interesting and that there is to people is their brain – and after a few weeks together there´ll be nothing I know nor any mental tool that I use that won´t, despite copyright, be in the hands of my friend: we won´t talk science (me teaching him/her) after all the science has been taught. I don´t care to teach trivia so when I say “I teach SCIENCE” I mean a finite thing: the existential theory plus something from each level of the known sizerange. Getting a P.hD from specializing on finding the structure of a rare protein only found in the feet of Amazonian forrest-mice is to put your eyes too close to the diagram; P.hDs for specializing/having a very narrow topic for one´s mind to engage in are for people who don´t see the forest for the trees and care to rather look at one leaf of one tree instead of thinking about and seeing the forest as a whole. I´m a forest person – a leaf 10 cm from my eyes just bugs me. That´s why there is a finite repertoire to what I call “science” – it takes a few days for me (my accomplishment/my work) to be fully understood and if repeated repetative. One only needs to know why/where one exists (the existential theory) once – one can´t forget it because we are made to remember the very context in which we live (here an evolutionary bias helps us: when someone explains “what the world is” we remember it because “what the world was” in caveman days was the most useful thing the brain could do – in fact we evolved such large brains because bigger brains remember better (can moreso map social relationships, successfull or unsuccesfull learning-experiences). We want to climb upwards in the hierarchy, find a mate, etc but all these wants and needs would be useless (they´d having nothing to work on) if it weren´t for the map (of social relationships etc) that our brain is capable of remembering. We are inclined to remember existential theories because such knowledge about our place in the context was as useful as mapping whom is married to whom. This bias, by the way, is something holy book writers used to get people interested in their book. “God created earth in 6 days (not 5)” is memorable because of our bias toward wanting to know about “creation of the world” – so the number “6 days” is remembered too because it adds to the map that we then work on to seek power and other evolutionary benefits. It´s hard to make plans that have one reach evolutionary benefits if one does not know one´s environment/the external world. “6 days for creating this place/world” adds to one´s map of the environment/place/external world. We have a bias for remembering it. Too bad the bronze-age holy books used this marketing trick (“hey, let´s say something about their world (like the creation of it) because that would be something they remember!”) to give pseudo- existential theories. The holy books made sales because not only do people want information about their context, people also want God to talk and interfere with day-to-day personal activites. Once you have a pseudo-explanation for how/why the world was created, you´re free to add to that pseudo-explanation that “the creator talks”. It´s impossible to add such a talking thing to my existential theory – not only is it unnecessary (my theory works stand-alone) but it also contradicts basically every concept of my existential theory. The very definitions of energymasspacetime (meaning that God had nothingness as the canvas to paint on – a nothingness that needs energymass and summons it because of the laws of nature inherent in that nothingness – and chose to paint a beginning with as-dense-as-can-be (just like E=mc2 would´ve created it because E=mc2 is true in the smallest spaces). Where was God when this happened? Couldn´t have been energymass because energymass is only summoned once the universe becomes pure nothingness. If God is not energymass and energymass is existence – then God doesn´t exist / God is nothing. What doesn´t exist or is nothing doesn´t give revalations to men, doesn´t care whom you sleep with, etc. Is God or God´s heaven a location in our size of infinite spacetime? In that case God is simply a far-away alien (which warrants questions about its evolution) but again – it doesn´t talk to us because of the distance and we wouldn´t be too impressed even if an evolved God did talk to us (we are quite like it – our science is the same, our world-view is the same). God is not a location in a size but is God a size? The sizerange is infinite (as proven by distinction not being able to see antidistinction) and that´d mean that there´s a creator to God (and that thing too has a creator, ad infinitum) IN THE SAME WAY as humans built cities or atoms make molecules. Again, if God is a size it warrant´s the question: is God every location of that size or is God, like humans, in a location of that size? Whatever be the case, God still couldn´t communicate with us. Since God fits neither in the context of energymasspacetime nor the context of the sizerange, a God-theory absolutely contradicts the true theory. What is said about God – that God is the greatest – makes only one “location”/notion in the existential theory correspond to a non-talking uncaring God: the theory itself (and more precisely Reality/[that of which all is part]) is the greatest. It certainly doesn´t hear/talk nor give revalations because it comes as an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime. When you tell this science, you can get to the point where you define Reality as “that of which all is part” and the greatest – you can even get to antidistinction/the unrepresentability of Reality (fully, because we do represent some things) and people might still hope that a talking God can exist. But as soon as you mention the less abstract (the more abstract was that [that of which all is part cannot be observed]), the God-theory either surrenders or is in conflict with a/the existential theory which certainly is true (anyone can verify how the components of the theory fit together, make sense and explain everything). God as a synonym for Reality is boring – why do we even have two words if we mean the same (scientific sizerange) thing.
If you assume that God is a synonym for Reality (which comes as an infinite sizescale, which in turn predicts a DNA-strand somewhere and voila: everything is explained), then I believe in your God. It doesn´t appriciate my appriciation of it though, nor do rituals, following rules (made by men) etc please it. If I am to “show my appriciation to it” I do it by writing as I do right now – that´s my worship of it: but I´m under no illusion that this writing would please God by being logical (eventhough Reality itself is logical too – so we have something incommon) – me writing can be called worship but the only appriciating recipients of my writing are me and readers of my text. Whatever I write about Reality/God doesn´t please God (because God is not a thing that listens, likes worship by others and other human needs) – whatever worshippers do, I hope they do it for themselves and for other humans because no-one else is able to care or comprehend the worship. I would do the muslim prayer if I felt that that kind of discipline would benefit me (and a few times I did get a good feeling from going to the mosque and being among worshippers). It´s so easy to adapt to the customs of one´s peers (and especially one´s superiors, if one believes that there are those) that my attitude toward worship/ritual is “when in Rome, do like the romans (if you or others gain something out of it)”. The world is complex – I could have the same attitude toward the beliefs of islam: that I´ll just say that something is through eventhough it obviously isn´t because it contradicts, say, a talking holy book-writing God. Could I make myself believe that something talkative is God? The belief disintegrates and I get the foul feeling of that I´ve used my valuable memory to note down a lie everytime I would think just one step/association further from the belief itself. I can believe (in anything) but analyzing it even the smallest amount will make me disbelieve it. But when you´re in the mood of not analyzing – like when one is having a panic attack on one´s death-bed – I´ll be (extremely) simplistic and do what some people seem to always do: “believe (in something that breaks down when analyzed)”. What confuses me is that some people believe all the time – they seem perfectly sane but they believe in a talking, scripture-giving God (that doesn´t fit anywhere in the existential theory). Do they need comfort (from untruth) all the time? It seems like they´re trying to argue their position, though. A perplexing phenomenon at first glance but when you consider that they´re uneducated about my existential theory, any theory will do (even a talking God-theory). I am not hateful of it when I see it in other people – I see it as humorous/ridicilous – but when it binds people together (to form what in essence is an army) and there´s many of them (10 000 religions/”armies”) the world´s got a problem. Binding people together through their shared scripture and their belief that something impossible is true is bad because groups tend to be more violent than individualists – especially if their holy text 1) seems to bind billions of people to their army (morale-strength amplification in a group is the root of violence), and 2) preaches violence/disrespect (many holy books are xenophobic and eager to create an “us vs. them”-social dynamic). If the holy book is taken seriously (if it can´t be thrown in the trash) then we have bronze-age xenophobia (based on who likes the book and who doesn´t) creeping into the modern day, and we also have artificial bonding/loyalty – we basically get groups who are hostile (or more disrespectful) toward anyone who doesn´t see the point (“there´s a talking God”) they´re promoting. It´s such an easily fixable problem: if you read my work you simply cannot believe in a talking God – my professional role is that you can give me ANY individual and I can “convert” him/her into not believing in a talking God. Whether this person will follow his or her group´s rituals or codes of conduct, though, is up to them – it´s sheer peer pressure.
The “us vs. them” “we are a big group” (and especially) “we should convert the whole world so that they use their precious memory for knowing nonsense like we do” are such great reasons for violence – and of course it´s fixable because what these people lack is education: only where there is no theory, can a pseudo-theory take root. Only where there is no argument/debate/science can “God talks” seem like legitimate truth. This means that much of the world´s violence is due to a lack of education (about the big questions i.e. what I talk about). Sure: some religions can be interpreted to say “kill the infidels” or some other explicit declaration of war – but it´s hard for a religion to survive if it constantly preaces fighting (it must have more clever tactics than that – but it does tend to seek world-dominion). I´m not so worried that someone reads the Quran and thinks “I´ll help the [unbelieves in the Quran´s talking God] to get to hell faster, because the Quran says that that´s where they belong”. I am worried about that the Quran (or any holy book) is the glue that binds people together. Religion is the last glue before we enter an era where obviously arbitrary things like nationalism or language makes strangers feel more familiar with eachother. Nation and language aren´t taken that seriously – nor should religion be, but it is. This binding-effect that holy books have is what makes ISIS / the taliban etc so hard to defeat – they think, not only that they have an all-seeing revalation-giving God on their side, but they also have the exact same copy of a book that a billion people have. They feel strong (with their, seemingly to them, superior numbers). Obviously ISIS underestimated the ability of the Quran to draw in arab nations into the fight over Iraq & Syria – the modern world simply leaned on the fact that ISIS are not muslims because they interpret the bronze-age ramble wrong. But ISIS / the taliban is still a factor – the quran binds too many people together in certain areas of the world – violence is caused, due to the binding-effect, the “moral superiority”-effect, the “power in numbers and billions of people read the Quran”-effect etc (all these effects are there even if you skip the parts about the talking God who word for word said the Quran) make men as prone to violence as anything can make them: they´re a group with an “us vs. them” dogma & feeling and they feel like they have power in numbers. Add to that the frustration over having to finance an own home before one can ejaculate. Those circumstances can make the group take up arms and “send the infidels where they belong”. Following the commandments frustrates, the whole notion of “let´s all prioritize this text highest (our favorite book) so that we´re bound together” and that the text itself can be interpreted as violent all are a breeding-ground for trouble – and when you´re in the trouble that the text creates, you are not in the state of mind to do the internal debate necessary to disprove a talking God and thus make your whole way of life become something that you either do as meaningless fun or don´t do because no-one cares. But just as some people want to become professional soccer players and some atheists do zen-meditation, humans (by personal preference) want hobbies, to take up a discipline, to do something that adds, say, pride to their life. I don´t personally care about soccer and I don´t feel pride from doing any ritual, but I can definitely see that others take the muslim prayers like an athlete takes their sport. It´s possible to find out the objective truth about whether these prayers “please God or not” (by, like I´ve done in this text, disproving all kinds of false Gods and making the real God more mundane and not a talker). Rituals don´t please Reality/”the energymasspacetime sizerange” because it is not a thing that gets pleased – it´s like trying to please a rock. You do the prayers because you enjoy the pride/hobby for its own sake – like someone doing sports likes his/her sport. Pleasing a rock/God to get to a “heaven” (which too doesn´t fit into the true existential theory) is stupid unless it´s akin to a hobby/sport where you do it for doing it´s sake. Same thing with the “heaven hates ham”-thing – when you know enough science (enough = what I´ve written so far in this text) you´ll realize that the whole ham-prohibition is man-made (from the bronze age) and linked to some pre-scientific nonsense from-the-horse´s-mouth-
statement (can´t say rationale because it´s dogma). If you (and secondarily your peers) are dedicated to nonsense (whether it be sports, stamp-collecting, memorizing capitals or not eating pork), then do it if it does something good like prove to yourself (and others) that you have a strong discipline (even though your effort is misdirected toward nonsense). I can invent a ritual and do it every day, and maybe I´d feel pride over that I can keep to a schedule of nonsense, but I would never claim the theory that there is a talking God, and by extention I wouldn´t say that that ficticious talker prohibited ham. The mundane action must be differentiated from the logical argument. Ham-prohibitions and talking Gods are artifacts that belong in the past – modern white A4-paper is too beautiful for someone to write something as erroneous as “there is a talking God” on it. But as I´m writing this, people are dying because religion binds them together (and frustrates them, and boosts their war-morale in many ways). My work can cause a civil war within ISIS – a civil rift so permiating that only family ties, friendships and common goals (to get money, not to spread islam) can keep people together in groups. Once my existential theory is known there will still be crime and instability in Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan, but the evil deeds will only be committed by groups of 2-3 people – not 20 000 of them. The binding effect of the Quran can most clearly be seen in that internet-propaganda made Quran-readers from the USA and Europe go fight in Syria – everyone wants a group and it´s totally human to assume that knowing the same book will be enough for a bond to be as strong as one wants it to be.
Right now “my work” is 9 proper texts and a few videos. They all talk about the same thing (which can be formulated as: I´ll say as much as I can about things I´ve never heard anyone else say (and I´ve seen the best professors in the world teaching truths)). To cause a rift in the taliban/ISIS and stop the war by making group-bonding (around a holy book) problematic/impossible, my whole “work” doesn´t need to be dropped as propaganda books on top of ISIS and the taliban. It´s enough that the news headlines say that “a correct all-explaining existential theory has been found – religions in crysis” or that enough people know my theory so that a multitude of youtube videos are made where, in a sentence or two, the presenter goes off-topic and mentions why we exist / something from my theory. Having understood it once makes it impossible to forget – having understood it once makes group-bonding over religion (which fuels ISIS/the taliban/etc) impossible. If the world could just take 20 minutes of its´ time to spend on explaining/teaching/arguing my work/theory, then the war on terror would be over – otherwise it will persist as long as people have no actual, logical theory about their existence and thus believe in bronze-age marketing tricks.
——-
The theory of evolution begins with the first reproducing shape. It was a shape that assembled surrounding mass into a similar shape. The existential theory predicts the existence of infinitely many such shapes. What inevitable becomes true when you have reproduction is that some die and some survive (life and death), that the number of offspring that shape make matters and that there is mutations over time. This is true about the shape´s offspring: some will die and some will survive, the number of offspring they make matters and the offspring can be different from the original shape. These three rules / laws of nature were inactive before the first reproduction occurred. The next main event was that one of these shapes found that if it injected its DNA into other shapes´ reproductive mechanism, it exploited principle number two: that the number of offspring matters. It was the first virus: it hijacked others´ reproduction. The rule / law of nature that came into play with this event was that “power” matters: hijacking others´ reproductive mechanism gives evolutionary benefits. Now we´ve listed the four main rules that govern evolutionary theory: first came the three first, and then came the forth: power. The next main event – to guard against viruses taking over all life / reproductive mechanisms – was that an immune system evolved to protect against virus´ hijack attempts. This required multicellularism. Just like immune systems prompt/require multicellularism, immune systems prompt/require multigenderedism: to win in the arms race against quickly mutating viruses two genders arose to amplify the mutations to the immune system. Mixing genes from two genders creates a more mutated immune system, which can keep ahead in the arms race against quickly-mutating viruses “trying” to mutate to bypass any immune system. The next main event is that one of these multicellular organisms – a fish or worm – of the male gender mutated to be agressive and defeat other males in battle. He would´ve gotten access to many more females than his non-agressive counter-parts. This too can be called “power” because the agressive male hijacks other male´s access to females by killing the males. This prompts the dinosaurs because larger muscle mass and shaper weaponry is better at killing off competitors. Amongst the dinosaurs there was the mother-offspring bond, placed there by evolution for the evolutionary benefits a mother gets from seeing an offspring survive to adulthood. This bond mutated to involve flock-members because a group working together out-competes any individualists when fighting over anything. The next main event was that someone mapped the flock, in his brain, as a hierarchy (up-down-axis) with the longing to dominate peers.
Posted on
07/05/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
Dude, evolution has me try to maximize evolutionary benefits using my plans; im always thinking at full speed and pain drives that thinking. And i know for certain that all this pain is meaningless. Its a suicide recipe but what prevents me from suicide is the natural strength that stems from being the pinnacle of beasts who all have survived for generations.
Posted on
05/05/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
Audios
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/Voice-005.m4a
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/Voice-006.m4a
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/Voice-008.m4a
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/Voice-009.m4a
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/Voice-010.m4a
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/Voice-003.m4a
Posted on
05/05/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Audios
My religion is to bitchslap Reality and then laugh about the attempt to bitchslap it.
Bön (=skratt) i storlek-tid. Stressen går ut = det är det helande miraklet. Den heliga skriften är ett skämt.
Jag gör en beskrivning av verkligheten, skrattar åt meningslösheten/grymheten/depressionen i den. T.ex. “storlek-tid”.
Vapnet i det heliga kriget är humor.
Posted on
04/05/2017
04/05/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
New book 2017
Chapter 1:
What problem does this solve?
This solves a problem that becomes most visible 60 years from now when sea-levels rise, the economy goes into permanent decline and oil ends. That´s when humans start to fight (and belong in world-view-based groups to do so). While the economy is still rising the clashes are few and far between – Afghanistan, Syria, ISIS´ world-wide terror attacks (mainly muslim world-views clashing with tolerant world-views). When the economy starts declining there´ll naturally be more friction between groups, and groups are made up of world-views (people identify as in a group based on world-view).
Advancing the scientific world-view to the level where it explains our origin and thus invades religious intellectual turf, solves the problem of world-views colliding as war.
Chapter 2:
Certain truth – I think & I am
You have a composite certain truth consisting of two certain truths: you can claim as certain that you think (because if you were being fooled: being fooled is thinking) and that you exist (because being fooled requires the one who is fooled to be there). I think and I exist is one statement but two truths. You can certainly claim to have “distinction” because you´re dealing with multiple separate distinct entities (such as “I” and “thought”). One could put it, while seeing the certain truths “I think” and “I exist”, that the space between the two notions (thinker and thought) is the hallmark of distinction. The distance separating thinker from thought we can recognize as necessary for “distinction” to be concluded as a certain truth arising, in a next logical step, from the original primary certain truth.
Everyone agrees they they themselves exist, because if one would get fooled in everyone one can be fooled in then one would exist there anyway and be fooled. So one knows that one exists. Then one also knows that one thinks because “to get fooled” is a thought-process. Thus we have two things: I think and I exist. And the distinction between them: and on the flipside of the paper we have the opposite of that: anti-distinction, and this can also be called “that of which all is part”/Reality. And since we are in the distinction-side of the paper when we see something; when we see something there is distinction between us and that thing. Thus we cannot represent or see that which is on the other side of the paper i.e. that of which all is part / Reality. Nothing can represent – because it is distinct – Reality. So whatever which is distinct cannot… whatever that is observed or represented is distinct and therefore is not… therefore does not represent Reality / “that of which all is part”. So we have distinction and anti-distinction as opposing poles.
You have a certain truth which everyone in the whole world agrees upon. You think and you exist since if you were being fooled by an almighty demon you´d still both think and exist. Then there are two things i.e. distinction. All is part of a single reality which is anti-distinction, there are no separate parts: reality is one. If we put distinction on the left side of the paper and anti-distinction on the right side then (we) distinction cannot see that of which all is part because “to see” is “to represent” and then one uses something to refer to reality. There is nothing outside reality which can refer to reality but instead reality is defined as “that of which all is part” and then there is nothing that can refer to all of reality. The opposition between the two sides of the paper (distinction & anti-distinction) makes reality as “that of which all is part”-anti-distinction non-representable because representation always involves distinction. What we see, for example, is just parts of reality. The hypotheses can be infinitely much so there is infinitely much to reality. Sizes and times, that is. In the existential theory (“why we exist”) there, thus, is an infinite size-range with time, energymass in spacetime (everything and nothing intertwined like in the E=mc2 equation – energy equals mass times, well – spacetime; multiplication is what unites energymass with spacetime). Then we have distinction and anti-distinction: separate things but all is part of a single reality. The existential theory with its three pillars, that is an infinite sizerange, energymasspacetime and distinction-anti-distinction-opposition, predicts that there should be a tiny piece of DNA which copies itself.
Then there´s another kind of revelation that got respect. Descartes who lived in the 1600s got respect, fame and was invited to live with the Queen of Sweden because he had gotten an idea which certainly told us something true. Revelations can either be con men´s statements like they were from ape-man and forward, or they can actually claim something which is verifyably true. Descartes, propably having his mind overcrowded by the masses of revelations that had accumulated to his time, asked: “what would be true if all my statements were false?”. What would remain if I tossed all my knowledge and ideas into the trash? Are we stuck with countless unverifyable statements, some contradicting eachother, not knowing which ones are true and which ones are not? Obviously not since statements about architecture are obviously true since they build houses, while contradictory statements do not. So Descartes dared to throw all his knowledge in the trash to see what remained. He found certain truth: that he exists – because even if he was wrong or was being fooled in everything he thought to be true, there´d still be a “he” there. He certainly exists no matter what. Same thing goes for thoughts: being wrong or being fooled is a thinking-process so even if he was wrong or was being fooled in everything he thought, there´d still be thought.
Socrates: So he figured out that he thinks and he exists.
God: These are not one statement – they are two.
Socrates: What does that mean?
God: I´ll tell you later – just agree with me that there is distinction between thinker and thought – that the statements are two. It´s building on certain truth, and it´s possible to build a whole… whatever it is that “saves the world” from the coming economic decline by having everyone build on certain truth until the God-debate is settled. Remembering “distinction” (between thinker and thought) will prevent the horror-scenario of large-scale future wars between people group-bound by religions, and instead – since everyone built a whole world-view on certain truth – have a more stable decline in the future. “Distinction” i.e. remembering that there are two certain truths (thinker and thought) is a step on the way toward a plan that will save humanity from destroying itself as much as it would if we didn´t build our world-views on certain truth.
Plato: So after an era of “revelation”-revelations invented by anyone for whatever purpose, coming from Darwin´s ape-man´s revelations, Descartes, in the 1600s, invented a revelation – certain truth: I think and I exist – which got him invited to the Queen of Sweden for the rest of his life. People have always liked revelations and even verifyable truth-claims like Descartes´ get respect.
God: I have set it as true that each one of you humans can verify in your own mind´s eye that you do certainly exist and that there certainly is thought – and thus there is distinction.
Darwin: Distinction is an abstract word. That two objects are separate/different from one another is one of those notions and ape-man never made into language – there was never the evolutionary need to talk about “distinction”. Yes: one could say that one banana is different from another (and one wants the bigger one), but to have Distinction exist stand-alone as a distinct notion is abstract thinking and we are not evolved to do that. For millions of years the caveman word for “distinction” was only used in a sentance – not stand-alone as in “distinction certainly exists because thinker and thought are both certain truths”.
Chapter 3:
Distinction-antidistinction-opposition
The first proof for that the size-time-diagram is infinite is distinction´s (our) inability to see/represent anti-distinction.
Chapter 4:
Maximum size?
The second prooof for that the size-time-diagram is infinite is that if we imagine a partless anti-distinction then it has no distinction as in a “maximum” or “minimum” size, i.e. the size-range is infinite.
Chapter 5:
Infinite size-time-diagram
Chapter 6:
Existential theory´s 3 pillars
Chapter 7:
Prediction of DNA
Posted on
04/05/2017
04/05/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on New book 2017
Posted on
27/04/2017
Categories
Most important posts
Leave a comment
on
Om anledningen till att religiösa krig fortsätter är att Jonatan inte fått en riskkapitalist att köpa volvo, villa, vovve för att skriva bättre… …så måste något radikalt göras, tänkar Jonatan när han röker på.
Posted on
26/04/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
Everyone agrees on that reality is one. Because it´s one nothing can represent it, because the representer too should be part of reality. That means that there is a size-time-diagram which is infinite. And that´s why we exist. Everyone agrees on this eventhough we are distinct unique individuals. We have this world-view incommon, with extraterrestrials too.
Posted on
26/04/2017
27/04/2017
Categories
Most important posts
Leave a comment
on
Pre
The text begins with certain truth, goes on to explaining why something exists rather than nothing (the existential theory – why we exist), and then goes on to evolutionary theory which is predicted by the existential theory and explains everday occurances.
Posted on
26/04/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Pre
Posts navigation
Page
1
Page
2
…
Page
13
Next page
Proudly powered by WordPress

Jonatan Mustonen – yonis1@gmail.com – A generalization of all existing science – the proof for that religion is unnecessary (like an appendix)
Skip to content
Jonatan Mustonen – yonis1@gmail.com
A generalization of all existing science – the proof for that religion is unnecessary (like an appendix)
Menu and widgets
Search for:
Recent Posts
Important Semi-Book 2017
1112
1101
Audios
1088
Recent Comments
Dagbok/diary 1 april 2017 – Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
on
Action thriller scifi book
Archives
May 2017
April 2017
March 2017
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
January 2016
Categories
Dagbok
Most important posts
Old
OldDagbok
The book + diagrams
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.org
Important Semi-Book 2017
The text begins with certain truth, goes on to explaining why something exists rather than nothing (the existential theory – why we exist), and then goes on to evolutionary theory which is predicted by the existential theory and explains everday occurances.
You know for certain that you think and that you exist because even if an almighty demon was fooling you in everything you can possibly be fooled in, the fooling itself is a thought-process and therefore you know that thought exists (you think), and for you to be fooled you have to exist and therefore you know “I exist”. Being fooled is thinking and a thinker is necessary for there to be someone to be fooled. So you know: no matter what, you think and you exist. Those are two things, right? They´re both part of the same brain and the thought-process can become the analytical toolkit/thinker, but still we recognize that there are distinct entities – there is distinction. This can also be called separation. What is distinction´s opposite, anti-distinction? It´s one reality; that of which all is part; it´s one and reality´s definition in the dictionary is that all is part of it. If we write distinction (thinker and thought) on the left side of the paper and anti-distinction (reality; that of which all is part; one) on the right side of the paper – can the left side see the right side? No, because of opposition between distinction and anti-distinction. Because of there always being an observer (a thinker) and thus distinction in every observation and thus anti-distinction can´t be represented/seen.
The brain evolved to deal with natural occurances – there was never an event in history where something invisible was to be contemplated and dealt with. Thus we seem to assume that the thought-process went wrong when we say that distinction/us can´t see anti-distinction/reality. But the thought-process didn´t go wrong: all that it means is that there is more to reality than can be represented. Regardless of how vaguely “represents” is defined, say a coffee cup – regardless of brains being involved – is assumed to try to represent that of which all is part, then anti-dinstinction – distinction – opposition (the opposition between distinction and it´s opposite) makes the representation incorrect. We can ask if there in an anti-distinct “thing” is a maximum size and thus distinction? No. Likewise, another proof for that the size-range is infinite is that we do sense something (our everyday world) and can make hypotheses ad infinitum, and yet nothing represents ALL OF reality. Reality i.e. size-time thus is infinite.
The infinite size-range is one pillar in the existential theory. Another pillar is energymass and spacetime being opposites but intertwined as in E=mc2 (where c2 refers to a speed which is space over time: spacetime). Multiplication joins energymass together with spacetime; nothing together with something/everything; existence together with non-existence. Why is there existence the shape of my body? Without going into the historical answer, one can explain it by saying that the body is something in (intertwined with) nothing, of a size in an infinite size-range (where the relationship between any two sizes (or objects of two sizes) is that they make sense of i.e. Justify one another). Then there too, as a third pillar, is distinction-anti-distinction-opposition i.e. We live in a single (not plural) reality but we see distinct/separate entities such as thinker and thought.
Speaking of spacetime, spacetime is the logical starting point for the time-based existential theory. Nothingness (empty space) need to prior justification nor reason to exist, because it doesn´t exist. In it, however, laws of nature are true i.e. It is not irrational / anti-logical, and among the many laws of nature there are those, including E=mc2, which mention energymass. Could energymass be “mentioned” without it existing? If yes, it would be absurd / anti-logical. Why would reality mention things that never exist? But since laws of nature are firm and because of our rule “what is mentioned must exist or must be summoned” we get, wherever (in the smallest spaces) that E=mc2 is mentioned, existence and thus dense existence: a big bang. The fact that galaxies are speeding away acceleratingly from one another leads to nothingness in the future, and with the middleman “laws of nature” again energymass is summoned as dense as can be. No time-delay between nothingness – laws of nature – energymass but as soon as a bordered (by event horizons which are determined by the finite speed of light) region becomes nothingness, a big bang occurs and eventually becomes nothingness bordered by event horizons again. This is the time-wise description of why energymass (which exists intertwined with spacetime as in E=mc2) starts dense and becomes nothingness, and repeats.
All of the above is a rival theory to “God created earth in 6 days and rested on the 7th”. It is unintuitive because it deals with things we didn´t have to deal with in evolution: invisible energymasspacetime/reality/anti-distinction as a part of reasoning. It also has a multi-reason cause for our existence: a time-wise rationale involving the beginning and end of the big bang combined with a 3-pillar existential theory which justifies size and energymass. It is abstract/scientific but can´t be reduced into simpler terms. It´s the lowest common denominator that everyone can believe in (regardless of religion).
How vaguely has reality defined ”to represent”?
Infinitely vaguely – anything can represent anything.
Is the representation/representer reality or Allah?
No.
Can anything represent that of which all is part?
No.
Then the size-time-diagram is infinite i.e. nothing represents reality. How many is it? How many is Allah? 1.
Did it say…, or did it write a book?
This disproves Allah.
Again: how much of reality can be represented by, say, a painting? The whole of it?
No, the whole of reality cannot be represented. Just like Allah can´t be captured in a picture/word.
We can have hypotheses – how many hypotheses can we have?
If reality is sizes & times, energymass and spacetime then the square-shaped size-time-diagram with energymasspacetime in each coordinate is the universal way to represent all there is to represent.
Does it write books? No, it is not of such authorship-kind nature.
“God said to Muhammed word by word…” is thus a false or at most metaphorical statement.
“You have to do rituals in order not to go to hell, and in heaven you get 72 virgins” is by the same logic also a false claim.
There are three alternatives as the foundation for this logic – can you think of a 4
th
one?
1: Reality is a synonym for Allah
2: or Allah doesn´t exist
3: or there are 72 virgins (not an alternative because reality is not of the nature, because it is size-time-energymasspacetime, to write books).
In addition to the square size-time diagram with infinity symbols in each of it´s corners, and the evolutionary triangle which designates that life becomes more complex as time goes on (the triangle originates at the central size of the known size-range), there is the following brain diagram:
The existential theory with its three pillars, that is an infinite sizerange, energymasspacetime and distinction-anti-distinction-opposition, predicts that there should be a tiny piece of DNA which copies itself. When we have a tiny piece of DNA which copies itself we have three rules which come into play: that some survive and others die, that the number of copies you make has significance and that there is mutation (changes over generation-shifts). These three rules god said directly when the first copying/reproduction occurred. Then these single-celled organisms copy themselves for a while. Then there´s an organism which invents that it can inject its DNA into others´ cells – a virus. It then uses a new mechanism which takes advantage of the reproductive mechanism in other cells. This phenomenon of using others´ reproductive mechanism to make one´s own offspring we can call “power”. First came the three rules – survive, offspring and mutation – then some millions of years passed, then came the worth rule (hijack someone else´s reproductive system like viruses do). Rule number four came first later – it exploits rule number two (that the number of offspring has significance). Then we have viruses and “normal” organisms, and there´s an arms race between them: the viruses mutate and the only way for our organisms to win is for them to become multicellular and get an immune system. And how do you gain more mutations to the immune system? Well, you have two genders. So two-genderedness came from combating viruses – one mutates one´s immune system more. When we have two genders there is the difference that girls have one egg while the males have lots of sperm and then the guys start fighting each other to get the girls. Then it´s the largest one with the sharpest teeth that wins and this happens generation after generation and thus we get the dinosaurs. Among the dinosaurs there was the bond between mother and offspring and it evolves to involve group-members because if a group and an individualist end up in a conflict (fight over resources, females and such) the group wins because it fights as a group instead of as an individual. It was an evolutionary benefit to mutate the mother-offspring-bond to involve group-members. Then someone in the group (now we have some kind of wolves or dogs) mutated the up-down-axis which we have inside our heads: socioeconomic status, the hierarchy, power. He wanted to create a political system where he recruits some males to protect him and themselves from the slaves that were kept outside the flock – that is the same organization which one has in dogs, walruses and humans. First we evolved the mother-offspring-bond, then evolution created the up-down-axis where our body is someone on it and we want upwards in it. One can see it with cells – cells which in space are distributed so that you have up and down and you have a strong urge to gain upwardness. The anatomy of power is important for the whole world to understand to cultivate civilization over short-term greed.
You have a composite certain truth consisting of two certain truths: you can claim as certain that you think (because if you were being fooled: being fooled is thinking) and that you exist (because being fooled requires the one who is fooled to be there). I think and I exist is one statement but two truths. You can certainly claim to have “distinction” because you´re dealing with multiple separate distinct entities (such as “I” and “thought”). One could put it, while seeing the certain truths “I think” and “I exist”, that the space between the two notions (thinker and thought) is the hallmark of distinction. The distance separating thinker from thought we can recognize as necessary for “distinction” to be concluded as a certain truth arising, in a next logical step, from the original primary certain truth.
Are all distinct entities part of a single reality if “reality” is defined as “that of which all is part”? In other words: if we draw distinction on the left side of a paper and anti-distinction (distinction´s opposite: a singular reality – that of which all is part. Zooming out summarizing maximally) on the right side of the paper, then can distinction represent the right side of the paper i.e. anti-distinction? How could some distinct entities depict the very opposite of what representation/distinction is? Any depiction/representation of anti-distinction/reality has at least three entities: thinker, space between thinker and thought, and thought. Separation/distinction is inherent in representation, thus anti-distinction is unrepresentable.
How vaguely has the universe/God defined what a representation is i.e. when a representation occurs? Our brains use neurons to represent, but what if – instead of neurons (regardless of brains) – the universe wills that any random object can be said to, as neurons do, represent reality? The universe has defined “representation” infinitely vaguely i.e. disregarding brains, any random object spontaneously is the symbol standing for all of reality – because the universe defines “represents” infinitely vaguely. Despite the infinitely vague definition of what represents what, distinction-anti-distinction-opposition (the line separating the left side of the paper from the right side; the countering of distinction with anti-distinction) means that reality is not representable. If reality is anti-distinction then no distinction (representation is inherently distinction) can even, despite an infinitely vague definition of “represents”, capture reality. Not only is the representer not equal to reality but any distinct representer is impossibly even pointing to reality because in representations we can count at least three things and what we´re trying to capture is one thing with nothing outside it. The fact that representations contain distinction makes capturing reality (all is one) impossible.
We can have infinitely many or infinitely large/substancefull representations/hypotheses – such as an infinite size-time-diagram – and though abstractly accurately pointing to reality, the universe´s rule that nothing represents reality despite infinitely vaguely allowed representations of infinitely much, makes reality unrepresentable. This can only mean one thing: reality – which we know as sizes and times (a size-time-diagram) – is infinite. There´s infinitely large and infinitely small with infinitely much past and infinitely much future. This square-shaped size-time-diagram i.e. our everyday experience of size-time has infinities all-over the place.
Energymass in spacetime: one in zero, existence in non-existence, something in nothing – as defined by E=mc2 where c2 stands for speed (distance over time i.e. spacetime/zero/non-existence) and E=m referring to energymass (existence, something, all).
Distinction-anti-distinction-opposition: we live in a singular reality but we see multiple objects.
An infinite size-range.
The above three ideas are an existential theory (a theory which explains the existence of a reproducing shape and thus the dawn of evolution and thus our existence). It is modern to utilize three equal ideas to explain one´s existence – all previous existential theories used either a single idea (monotheism) or a saga (multiple mundane (not very scientific/abstract) ideas) to explain existence.
The predictive quality that makes this existential theory a scientific theory is that it, basing it off an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime and distinction-anti-distinction-opposition, predicts that in an infinite size-range there ought to be a size where reproduction occurs. The existential theory predicts the first DNA, and from there we get to the evolutionary theory.
Another predictive quality is that the theory predicts a
dense
Big Bang. The a priori beginning of the universe logically is emptiness because emptiness doesn´t need any prior logical justification for its existence because it doesn´t exist. In emptiness laws of nature are true, such as the laws pointing toward and handleing energymass (like E=mc2), and thus the Big Bang begins infinitely dense because E=mc2 is equally true simultaneously in the smallest of spaces. Tiny empty spaces having E=mc2 be true in them simultaneously and directly as there was nothingness predicts a dense Big Bang. A region, contained within event horizons made out of energymasses speeding away at >c (due to dark energy causing accelerating cosmic expansion), is by definition “nothing” in which E=mc2 being true in the tiniest spaces summons a dense big bang out of reach of the closest (v = >c) energymass. Nothingness (out of reach for the closest energymasses because they are speeding away at >c) is summoned in the central point with event horizons as the furthest away border, causing Big Bang (due to laws of nature summoning energymass in the empty center).
The theory of evolution begins with the first reproducing shape. It was a shape that assembled surrounding mass into a similar shape. The existential theory predicts the existence of infinitely many such shapes. What inevitable becomes true when you have reproduction is that some die and some survive (life and death), that the number of offspring that shape make matters and that there is mutations over time. This is true about the shape´s offspring: some will die and some will survive, the number of offspring they make matters and the offspring can be different from the original shape. These three rules / laws of nature were inactive before the first reproduction occurred. The next main event was that one of these shapes found that if it injected its DNA into other shapes´ reproductive mechanism, it exploited principle number two: that the number of offspring matters. It was the first virus: it hijacked others´ reproduction. The rule / law of nature that came into play with this event was that “power” matters: hijacking others´ reproductive mechanism gives evolutionary benefits. Now we´ve listed the four main rules that govern evolutionary theory: first came the three first, and then came the forth: power. The next main event – to guard against viruses taking over all life / reproductive mechanisms – was that an immune system evolved to protect against virus´ hijack attempts. This required multicellularism. Just like immune systems prompt/require multicellularism, immune systems prompt/require multigenderedism: to win in the arms race against quickly mutating viruses two genders arose to amplify the mutations to the immune system. Mixing genes from two genders creates a more mutated immune system, which can keep ahead in the arms race against quickly-mutating viruses “trying” to mutate to bypass any immune system. The next main event is that one of these multicellular organisms – a fish or worm – of the male gender mutated to be agressive and defeat other males in battle. He would´ve gotten access to many more females than his non-agressive counter-parts. This too can be called “power” because the agressive male hijacks other male´s access to females by killing the males. This prompts the dinosaurs because larger muscle mass and shaper weaponry is better at killing off competitors. Amongst the dinosaurs there was the mother-offspring bond, placed there by evolution for the evolutionary benefits a mother gets from seeing an offspring survive to adulthood. This bond mutated to involve flock-members because a group working together out-competes any individualists when fighting over anything. The next main event was that someone mapped the flock, in his brain, as a hierarchy (up-down-axis) with the longing to dominate peers.
It is a major historical event that there finally is an atheistic argument that is shaped like a university course: It is an existential theory plus evolution which not only doesn´t need a personified god to function, but the pillars (infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime and distinction-anti-distinction-
opposition) can´t have a personified god added to them as a 4th pillar without the theory sounding ridicilous. Not only does the theory not need a personified god but adding a god destroys the minimalistic rationally complete beauty of the theory. Gods uglify the theory. The dawn of the theory is a major historical event because never before has an entire course (beginning with certain truth, going through the existential theory and ending in evolution) been laid out in the intellectual debate of atheism, as an argument against a personified god.
The anatomy in the brain from hearing certain truth (I think & I am) – the beginning of the course – creates the same neuronal pathways / associations between ideas in every single person who knows certain truth. The logical step to “distinction” is noting, as a meta-analysis of the primary certain truth, that one has many ideas (I think AND I am) and that one can take logical pathways to the next step in the course (distinction exists). Then juxtaposing anti-distinction with distinction creates the unseeable – “defying reason” (because reason is, in simple people, only visual) – conclusion that we/distinction cannot see reality/anti-distinction. The distinction-anti-distinction-
opposition is hard to grasp because it – like formal logic or math – uses words instead of pictures (the linguistic brainhalf rather than the visual one). We evolved to be like “if I see it I believe it” and that was a good heuristic (rule of thumb) because practical sequences of events can be verified as true or untrue by visualizing them. But in this philosophy: no – it has to be linguistic that we deny ourselves the concept “all of reality”, leading to the conclusion that there is more to reality than anything – however vaguely the universe has defined “represent” – can represent. This adds infinitely many sizes to our abstract size-range / size-time-diagram; it makes a square (with size on the y-axis and time on the x-axis) with infinity symbols in each corner, which in turn becomes a pillar in our personified-god-denying existential theory.
To come from certain truth, through mere logical steps (meta-analyses and juxtaposition of opposites), to an existential theory which predicts evolution is a major historical event in the history of atheism.
In a historical context the anatomy (neural connections between ideas and sequences of logic) created by this course is like a paradigm-shift into a new era of earth society – an era similar to that existent on infinitely many other planets who have come further than our midway-mark in a regular water-bearing planet´s history.
Evolution, by beginning with “a mass that can assemble surrounding mass into a similar shape” steps forth from the existential theory´s infinite size-range of energymasspacetime. Assuming DNA is the replication-molecule, we can step – skipping over how cell walls evolved etc – to the fact that viruses mutate to hijack others´ reproductive system. This – in this universal inter-planetary extraterrestrial culture – is formulated, in books of logic, as first three rules arising (life/death, number of offspring matters and “there is mutation in each generation-shift”) and then a forth rule arising (power, with viruses). This story – which in our course begins from a first reproducing shape and ends with finessing the anatomy of power in men – is visualizable like the caveman story-telling narratives we evolved to hear/see. We can proof-check its validity/possibility by following the narrative visually. The visual nature of evolution is in stark contrast to the purely linguistic/abstract nature of the existential theory.
Speaking of “abstract” descriptions i.e. Descriptions that make it very clear to us that our understanding of the universe is a mere map (a reference) and not reality itself (mind you of Plato´s or Kant´s cave-metaphor and “the thing is not the thing itself” -philosophies)… The size-range of energymasspacetime, at the size of quantum physics (to begin with) has us describe photons etc using both the wave-description which focues on lengths of space (this is the “spacetime description”) AND – in wave-particle duality – the energymass description that the energy of a photon is its color. Color (as perceived through the eyes), wave/spacetime-description and particle-energy/energymass-
description all are valid descriptors of quantum particles. This ability of ours to describe any mass/phenomenon using both energymass- and spacetime-descriptions runs throughout the entire size-range. You can imagine two lines – one representing energymass and the other representing spacetime – running vertically through the pictures on the size-axis. Adding complexity to this, there is likewise two lines – gravity and electromagnetism – both running through the size-axis, gravity having it´s duality of energymass and spacetime descriptions and electromagnetism too having both, in every level of the size-range, energymass and spacetime descriptions. Gravity is both Newtonian “masses pulling toward masses” (energymass´ focus on mass) and Einsteinian “curvature of spacetime” (spacetime´s focus on space) – both descriptors are accurate.
Jonatan Mustonen
Posted on
08/05/2017
09/05/2017
Categories
Most important posts
Leave a comment
on Important Semi-Book 2017
Can we
timetravel? We can proceed from era to era, just like dinosaurs preceded man and not vice versa – its a universal sequence on any planet.
Heaven/karma instinctual but collides with main picture.
Water, primordial soup, proteins, dns strand. Single cell reproducing multiplying. Then 1 of these cells thought “ill inject my own dna into some other cell”, hijack its reproductive system. Very beneficial. So first there were 3 rules: life n death, number of offspring matters and mutation in each generationshift, then with viruses came the 4th rule “power” – hijacking others’ reproductive system. Then theres an arms race between viruses and … “Our kind of” organism, so to mutate our immune system faster two genders arose. Then fights between males led to the dinosaurs. Then brains bonded into groups to fight individualists. Then capitalist power struggles within the group made the brain grow larger, we’re good at planning and remembering things. Then we get to kingdoms. From the water puddle to the 21 st century. Those who proceed to the next era will live in a world where holy book-group bonds are weak and a universal courses group bond is the strongest, thus national wars or civilizational wars where identity is based on other than this science will be impossible. The planet has two future ways to go 60 years from now and one is better but needs some investment of time until everybody knows this course.
Theres a universal course/book thats on every advanced enough planet throughout the universe and at the regeneration of every universe. If you consider the entire corpus of human knowledge, youd find 3 rational starting points: certain truth, nothingness and that reality is one. Just like dinosaurs predate humans the first chapter with the 3 starting points predate the connecting of “i think n i exist, distinction” and “reality is one, antidistinction. Which leads to that there is more to reality than can be contemplated meaning that its infinite. Thats chaper 2: like multiplication and division are much higher levels of mathematics than adding and subtracting, chaper 2 is higher than the starting points in chapter 1.
———
If you want to be altruistic/selfless you can think about the millions of lives lost or living as refugees due to religious wars and group-loyalties based on ideology/religion. What if group-loyalty could be, for everyone, based on a single universal ideology? Then friendship ties, shared histories, well-mixing personalities and the like would form groups that don´t have a religious mission/an ideological drive. When all ideologies are erased – and religions too – then simple biological mechanisms like common goals, shared interests and family ties bind us together – and those kind of conglomerations are more likely to disintegrate than if there is a holy book or any ideological book as the binding principle between people. If ISIS would be educated then it would disintegrate and many civil wars break out among different families in Iraq/Syria – but there would not be this major cleft between western&modern and holy&dogmatic.
If you want to be selfish like Ayn Rand: the upcoming world order / economy will be a meritocracy based on who advances or knows the most science. The ancient Chinese had a government where even the lowest peasant, if he passed a test in Confuscious´ teachings, could elevate himself higher in the society. Hierarchy is based on what is objectively to be admired; hierarchy is based on what infinitely many extraterrestrials in consensus have agreed upon be the criteria for how a human´s thoughts should be wired; hierarchy is based on the universe´s disposition to reward those with the most accurate world-view or whom advance the pre-existing world-view and spread it to others – the universe wants us choose to elevate in the hierarchy those whom appriciate the universe most fully, wholistically and most accurately. The old power-system based on money is upheld by banks and is based on present day humans´ ties to the past. There will be an overlap between the old bank-based system for establishing VIP-status and the new economy which is a meritocracy based on science. If we want to be like planets ahead of us in the evolution of history, we ought to adapt the meritocracy-economy. After a few generations inherited money seems less legitimate than knowing or advancing science and by doing so wiring one´s cortex (flexible thinking part of the brain) as universally as possible (as much like the consensus among extraterrestrials is as possible).
There are three universal starting points for the universal course which will wire your brain universally. What I mean by “universal” is that:
A) it is based on science meaning that it is retrievable from anywhere at any time; it is available universally unlike some time-specific language-specific location-specific holy-book-revalation.
B) universal means that it is how aliens/extraterrestrials sooner or later wire their brains. Sure: they can choose to live in a multi-worldviewical world but sooner or later the truth will conquer meaning that all various ideas among every tribe or nation will congregate (like a lens focuses many beams of light into one focal point) into a single set of ideas and prioritarizations – a single world-view will emerge from the many. It is the identical world-view that all civilizing planets will congregate to/toward because science is universal. This congregating is as much of a universal step in evolution as that a planet with water will eventually have bacteria. Eventually everyone will know the course and the idea of this book. “What do you believe?” will no longer be a question because everyone has wired their cortex´s ideas based on universal ideas/science.
——–
Am I a muslim?
I have my size-time-diagram into which everything fits and this diagram being infinite gives an existential theory because:
– sizes justify (are the cause of) one another, so there´s infinite justification.
– time is infinite and our universe is observed to become nothingness in the future, and nothingness would be absurd if not for the fact that in the smallest spaces energymass is summoned because E=mc2 is a stable, constant law of nature.
– there can only be separate distinct entities if distinction is counter-balanced and happens in non-distinction (a singular Reality). This point is much like the previous point of that only in nothingness can somethingness be summoned.
God, then, if we are to look for a meaning for the word, cannot be:
– a specific object, size nor time within something infinitely larger
– cannot, by definition, be apart from and “beyond” [that of which all is part] (Reality). Reality being an infinite size- and time-range of energymasspacetime is enough of an existential theory to explain us being here, the Big Bang, and the rest of the questions. God would, if claimed to be “beyond” the existential theory, be an unnecessary unproven assumption but more to the point: God would be “unreal” if Reality is defined as we define it here. Such “beyond Reality”-gods are unreal. What´s more is that the phrase “Allah akbar” (God is the biggest/greatest) wouldn´t be true if Reality/[that of which all is part] is God plus Reality – if [that of which all is part] has two major components, God and an energymasspacetime sizerange etc (the existential theory), then the sum of those two components is greater than God.
God, thus, obviously means Reallity by the definition of God being the greatest. God is then infinite. It makes sense to see people in awe over how much they can study, when they know there´s infinitely many fields of science which we do not have access to but which are logical and necessities for Reality to hold together. There being nothing absurd in an infinite size-range that resembles our known size-range (from quantum physics to the visible universe) is awesome and the highest you could possibly worship. This again proves that God is just a synonym for Reality/the existential theory.
Having studied all fields of science i.e. all sizes is the known sizerange, seeing how they all make up (justify) eachother (that it´s just zooming in and zooming out), the wisdom that the sizerange is infinite (that there are infinitely many sizes making up one another) from the distinction (I think & I am logical path) and anti-distinction (that Reality is one) -thing, is the reason why we exist and God is not some size (sizes are not minds, except through evolution). Having studied all known sizes and knowing that the sizerange is infinite: it is an explanation to why we´re here (akin to the Adam and Eve story or “God created earth in 6 days” story) but it is not a revalation-giving thing – the Quran wasn´t written by God because God is not the kind of thing that writes/dictates stories. God being an infinite sizerange as thus our Creator is true, but the true way to get knowledge, rituals/pictoral representations and even guidance is through my work, not the work of the holy book-writers. The holy book writers might have said something true about God (just like I do in my work) – but that is true of science textbooks moreso – and they all said false things such as that God talks/gives revalations/authors holy books.
I can see the bronze-age marketing-team´s standpoint: people are more prone to follow dictates if they´re said to come from something/someone “higher than human” i.e. a God or a ghost/spirit. Being invisible in as nonsense-a-way as some rituals are, is great for marketing. Everyone knows how humans thing – they´re themselves human; we are only partly rational (a computer is rational) in what we think – all our animal lusts bias or interrupt the thoughts that are as logical as they get, but they´re always going to be based against an evolutionary background just like the pitfall that my abstract diagram-including infinity-mentioning world-view is more like algebra than “what a world-view (context in which we are) should be thinking about that we lived for millions of years on the savannah, only needing to know (in one´s world-view) where the water-source is or whom stands under whom in the social hierarchy. We´ve mapped geographies, the use-based properties of objects/tools and personalities (and still do) for a gazillion years – only with the advent of science SOME of us achieved higher i.e. used their evolved meager toolkit with all its biases to scetch out something like the theory of evolution in the 1800s. Looking at the evolution of [what we use our memory for]/how we map our surroundings/our world-view, before we mapped social relationships we mapped geographies. Before we mapped the functions of inventions (tools) our map only contained caveman tools (sharp stones and spears). The next step is to map one´s context as an infinite size-time-diagram (where size and time are really the same, but abstract thinking allows us to separate them into two distinct axises) or energymasspacetime (with its´ many laws of nature found in every school textbook in the world) and the distinction-antidistinction-
thing which feels so awkward/abstract that one wonders why one needs it as pillar 3 of the existential theory: the answer is: it wasn´t invented (the words “I see a distinct object” or “why is there distinction?” weren´t said in the same breath as “Reality is one” or “energymass and spacetime unite”) until I did it in the 21st century). It might seem trivial to mention that separate entities exist in a singular Reality – it´s so obvious (that´s why no-one cared to make a big fuzz out of inventing it) but it makes the existential theory have three pillars (all of which can seem obvious) and not 4 – there´s nothing more to add to the existential theory once you´ve added the obvious “separation in antidistinction”-statement. I want to know how aliens (the infinitely many of them, steered by science toward an incommon path) think because its synonymous to finding a TRUE “key to history” (Marx thought the key was equality, Hitler thought the key was racial superiority and a brutally competative relationship between races, Capitalism thinks it´s freedom (less government), some might think they “key to history” is to fund technological development). “How aliens think” is a shorthand way of saying “the key to history” or “what will happen next/eventually and in hindsight seen as akin to the era of ancient grecoroman culture, the Industrial Revolution or the Digital revolution)”. It´s what we´re steered towards; it´s the closest thing we get to divine guidance. It´s simply universal (drawn on science and practiced by infinitely many aliens) guidance/suggestions/
recommendations that we, as a species, can choose to promogate and thus “follow” or if we´ll stick to multiculturalism´s many -ism´s like political quran-based islamism or christian-based “the holy book gave me this”-morality and codes of conduct. Some -ism´s are dangerous (like quran-based politics and law) while some -ism´s like christianity give too much credit to the -ism for simple human decency (in an age of extreme wealth globally). When my tummy is full I´m a decent person – I try to make money but I´m not desparate after extreme wealth because I know that my caveman-brain´s “need” for power (through status-symbols and freedom of space my environment to maximize the effectiveness of my hobby (writing)) won´t get satisfied no matter what external extravaganzas trigger my eyeballs, nor can people (socializing) make me much more satisfied than I am right now because all that is interesting and that there is to people is their brain – and after a few weeks together there´ll be nothing I know nor any mental tool that I use that won´t, despite copyright, be in the hands of my friend: we won´t talk science (me teaching him/her) after all the science has been taught. I don´t care to teach trivia so when I say “I teach SCIENCE” I mean a finite thing: the existential theory plus something from each level of the known sizerange. Getting a P.hD from specializing on finding the structure of a rare protein only found in the feet of Amazonian forrest-mice is to put your eyes too close to the diagram; P.hDs for specializing/having a very narrow topic for one´s mind to engage in are for people who don´t see the forest for the trees and care to rather look at one leaf of one tree instead of thinking about and seeing the forest as a whole. I´m a forest person – a leaf 10 cm from my eyes just bugs me. That´s why there is a finite repertoire to what I call “science” – it takes a few days for me (my accomplishment/my work) to be fully understood and if repeated repetative. One only needs to know why/where one exists (the existential theory) once – one can´t forget it because we are made to remember the very context in which we live (here an evolutionary bias helps us: when someone explains “what the world is” we remember it because “what the world was” in caveman days was the most useful thing the brain could do – in fact we evolved such large brains because bigger brains remember better (can moreso map social relationships, successfull or unsuccesfull learning-experiences). We want to climb upwards in the hierarchy, find a mate, etc but all these wants and needs would be useless (they´d having nothing to work on) if it weren´t for the map (of social relationships etc) that our brain is capable of remembering. We are inclined to remember existential theories because such knowledge about our place in the context was as useful as mapping whom is married to whom. This bias, by the way, is something holy book writers used to get people interested in their book. “God created earth in 6 days (not 5)” is memorable because of our bias toward wanting to know about “creation of the world” – so the number “6 days” is remembered too because it adds to the map that we then work on to seek power and other evolutionary benefits. It´s hard to make plans that have one reach evolutionary benefits if one does not know one´s environment/the external world. “6 days for creating this place/world” adds to one´s map of the environment/place/external world. We have a bias for remembering it. Too bad the bronze-age holy books used this marketing trick (“hey, let´s say something about their world (like the creation of it) because that would be something they remember!”) to give pseudo- existential theories. The holy books made sales because not only do people want information about their context, people also want God to talk and interfere with day-to-day personal activites. Once you have a pseudo-explanation for how/why the world was created, you´re free to add to that pseudo-explanation that “the creator talks”. It´s impossible to add such a talking thing to my existential theory – not only is it unnecessary (my theory works stand-alone) but it also contradicts basically every concept of my existential theory. The very definitions of energymasspacetime (meaning that God had nothingness as the canvas to paint on – a nothingness that needs energymass and summons it because of the laws of nature inherent in that nothingness – and chose to paint a beginning with as-dense-as-can-be (just like E=mc2 would´ve created it because E=mc2 is true in the smallest spaces). Where was God when this happened? Couldn´t have been energymass because energymass is only summoned once the universe becomes pure nothingness. If God is not energymass and energymass is existence – then God doesn´t exist / God is nothing. What doesn´t exist or is nothing doesn´t give revalations to men, doesn´t care whom you sleep with, etc. Is God or God´s heaven a location in our size of infinite spacetime? In that case God is simply a far-away alien (which warrants questions about its evolution) but again – it doesn´t talk to us because of the distance and we wouldn´t be too impressed even if an evolved God did talk to us (we are quite like it – our science is the same, our world-view is the same). God is not a location in a size but is God a size? The sizerange is infinite (as proven by distinction not being able to see antidistinction) and that´d mean that there´s a creator to God (and that thing too has a creator, ad infinitum) IN THE SAME WAY as humans built cities or atoms make molecules. Again, if God is a size it warrant´s the question: is God every location of that size or is God, like humans, in a location of that size? Whatever be the case, God still couldn´t communicate with us. Since God fits neither in the context of energymasspacetime nor the context of the sizerange, a God-theory absolutely contradicts the true theory. What is said about God – that God is the greatest – makes only one “location”/notion in the existential theory correspond to a non-talking uncaring God: the theory itself (and more precisely Reality/[that of which all is part]) is the greatest. It certainly doesn´t hear/talk nor give revalations because it comes as an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime. When you tell this science, you can get to the point where you define Reality as “that of which all is part” and the greatest – you can even get to antidistinction/the unrepresentability of Reality (fully, because we do represent some things) and people might still hope that a talking God can exist. But as soon as you mention the less abstract (the more abstract was that [that of which all is part cannot be observed]), the God-theory either surrenders or is in conflict with a/the existential theory which certainly is true (anyone can verify how the components of the theory fit together, make sense and explain everything). God as a synonym for Reality is boring – why do we even have two words if we mean the same (scientific sizerange) thing.
If you assume that God is a synonym for Reality (which comes as an infinite sizescale, which in turn predicts a DNA-strand somewhere and voila: everything is explained), then I believe in your God. It doesn´t appriciate my appriciation of it though, nor do rituals, following rules (made by men) etc please it. If I am to “show my appriciation to it” I do it by writing as I do right now – that´s my worship of it: but I´m under no illusion that this writing would please God by being logical (eventhough Reality itself is logical too – so we have something incommon) – me writing can be called worship but the only appriciating recipients of my writing are me and readers of my text. Whatever I write about Reality/God doesn´t please God (because God is not a thing that listens, likes worship by others and other human needs) – whatever worshippers do, I hope they do it for themselves and for other humans because no-one else is able to care or comprehend the worship. I would do the muslim prayer if I felt that that kind of discipline would benefit me (and a few times I did get a good feeling from going to the mosque and being among worshippers). It´s so easy to adapt to the customs of one´s peers (and especially one´s superiors, if one believes that there are those) that my attitude toward worship/ritual is “when in Rome, do like the romans (if you or others gain something out of it)”. The world is complex – I could have the same attitude toward the beliefs of islam: that I´ll just say that something is through eventhough it obviously isn´t because it contradicts, say, a talking holy book-writing God. Could I make myself believe that something talkative is God? The belief disintegrates and I get the foul feeling of that I´ve used my valuable memory to note down a lie everytime I would think just one step/association further from the belief itself. I can believe (in anything) but analyzing it even the smallest amount will make me disbelieve it. But when you´re in the mood of not analyzing – like when one is having a panic attack on one´s death-bed – I´ll be (extremely) simplistic and do what some people seem to always do: “believe (in something that breaks down when analyzed)”. What confuses me is that some people believe all the time – they seem perfectly sane but they believe in a talking, scripture-giving God (that doesn´t fit anywhere in the existential theory). Do they need comfort (from untruth) all the time? It seems like they´re trying to argue their position, though. A perplexing phenomenon at first glance but when you consider that they´re uneducated about my existential theory, any theory will do (even a talking God-theory). I am not hateful of it when I see it in other people – I see it as humorous/ridicilous – but when it binds people together (to form what in essence is an army) and there´s many of them (10 000 religions/”armies”) the world´s got a problem. Binding people together through their shared scripture and their belief that something impossible is true is bad because groups tend to be more violent than individualists – especially if their holy text 1) seems to bind billions of people to their army (morale-strength amplification in a group is the root of violence), and 2) preaches violence/disrespect (many holy books are xenophobic and eager to create an “us vs. them”-social dynamic). If the holy book is taken seriously (if it can´t be thrown in the trash) then we have bronze-age xenophobia (based on who likes the book and who doesn´t) creeping into the modern day, and we also have artificial bonding/loyalty – we basically get groups who are hostile (or more disrespectful) toward anyone who doesn´t see the point (“there´s a talking God”) they´re promoting. It´s such an easily fixable problem: if you read my work you simply cannot believe in a talking God – my professional role is that you can give me ANY individual and I can “convert” him/her into not believing in a talking God. Whether this person will follow his or her group´s rituals or codes of conduct, though, is up to them – it´s sheer peer pressure.
The “us vs. them” “we are a big group” (and especially) “we should convert the whole world so that they use their precious memory for knowing nonsense like we do” are such great reasons for violence – and of course it´s fixable because what these people lack is education: only where there is no theory, can a pseudo-theory take root. Only where there is no argument/debate/science can “God talks” seem like legitimate truth. This means that much of the world´s violence is due to a lack of education (about the big questions i.e. what I talk about). Sure: some religions can be interpreted to say “kill the infidels” or some other explicit declaration of war – but it´s hard for a religion to survive if it constantly preaces fighting (it must have more clever tactics than that – but it does tend to seek world-dominion). I´m not so worried that someone reads the Quran and thinks “I´ll help the [unbelieves in the Quran´s talking God] to get to hell faster, because the Quran says that that´s where they belong”. I am worried about that the Quran (or any holy book) is the glue that binds people together. Religion is the last glue before we enter an era where obviously arbitrary things like nationalism or language makes strangers feel more familiar with eachother. Nation and language aren´t taken that seriously – nor should religion be, but it is. This binding-effect that holy books have is what makes ISIS / the taliban etc so hard to defeat – they think, not only that they have an all-seeing revalation-giving God on their side, but they also have the exact same copy of a book that a billion people have. They feel strong (with their, seemingly to them, superior numbers). Obviously ISIS underestimated the ability of the Quran to draw in arab nations into the fight over Iraq & Syria – the modern world simply leaned on the fact that ISIS are not muslims because they interpret the bronze-age ramble wrong. But ISIS / the taliban is still a factor – the quran binds too many people together in certain areas of the world – violence is caused, due to the binding-effect, the “moral superiority”-effect, the “power in numbers and billions of people read the Quran”-effect etc (all these effects are there even if you skip the parts about the talking God who word for word said the Quran) make men as prone to violence as anything can make them: they´re a group with an “us vs. them” dogma & feeling and they feel like they have power in numbers. Add to that the frustration over having to finance an own home before one can ejaculate. Those circumstances can make the group take up arms and “send the infidels where they belong”. Following the commandments frustrates, the whole notion of “let´s all prioritize this text highest (our favorite book) so that we´re bound together” and that the text itself can be interpreted as violent all are a breeding-ground for trouble – and when you´re in the trouble that the text creates, you are not in the state of mind to do the internal debate necessary to disprove a talking God and thus make your whole way of life become something that you either do as meaningless fun or don´t do because no-one cares. But just as some people want to become professional soccer players and some atheists do zen-meditation, humans (by personal preference) want hobbies, to take up a discipline, to do something that adds, say, pride to their life. I don´t personally care about soccer and I don´t feel pride from doing any ritual, but I can definitely see that others take the muslim prayers like an athlete takes their sport. It´s possible to find out the objective truth about whether these prayers “please God or not” (by, like I´ve done in this text, disproving all kinds of false Gods and making the real God more mundane and not a talker). Rituals don´t please Reality/”the energymasspacetime sizerange” because it is not a thing that gets pleased – it´s like trying to please a rock. You do the prayers because you enjoy the pride/hobby for its own sake – like someone doing sports likes his/her sport. Pleasing a rock/God to get to a “heaven” (which too doesn´t fit into the true existential theory) is stupid unless it´s akin to a hobby/sport where you do it for doing it´s sake. Same thing with the “heaven hates ham”-thing – when you know enough science (enough = what I´ve written so far in this text) you´ll realize that the whole ham-prohibition is man-made (from the bronze age) and linked to some pre-scientific nonsense from-the-horse´s-mouth-
statement (can´t say rationale because it´s dogma). If you (and secondarily your peers) are dedicated to nonsense (whether it be sports, stamp-collecting, memorizing capitals or not eating pork), then do it if it does something good like prove to yourself (and others) that you have a strong discipline (even though your effort is misdirected toward nonsense). I can invent a ritual and do it every day, and maybe I´d feel pride over that I can keep to a schedule of nonsense, but I would never claim the theory that there is a talking God, and by extention I wouldn´t say that that ficticious talker prohibited ham. The mundane action must be differentiated from the logical argument. Ham-prohibitions and talking Gods are artifacts that belong in the past – modern white A4-paper is too beautiful for someone to write something as erroneous as “there is a talking God” on it. But as I´m writing this, people are dying because religion binds them together (and frustrates them, and boosts their war-morale in many ways). My work can cause a civil war within ISIS – a civil rift so permiating that only family ties, friendships and common goals (to get money, not to spread islam) can keep people together in groups. Once my existential theory is known there will still be crime and instability in Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan, but the evil deeds will only be committed by groups of 2-3 people – not 20 000 of them. The binding effect of the Quran can most clearly be seen in that internet-propaganda made Quran-readers from the USA and Europe go fight in Syria – everyone wants a group and it´s totally human to assume that knowing the same book will be enough for a bond to be as strong as one wants it to be.
Right now “my work” is 9 proper texts and a few videos. They all talk about the same thing (which can be formulated as: I´ll say as much as I can about things I´ve never heard anyone else say (and I´ve seen the best professors in the world teaching truths)). To cause a rift in the taliban/ISIS and stop the war by making group-bonding (around a holy book) problematic/impossible, my whole “work” doesn´t need to be dropped as propaganda books on top of ISIS and the taliban. It´s enough that the news headlines say that “a correct all-explaining existential theory has been found – religions in crysis” or that enough people know my theory so that a multitude of youtube videos are made where, in a sentence or two, the presenter goes off-topic and mentions why we exist / something from my theory. Having understood it once makes it impossible to forget – having understood it once makes group-bonding over religion (which fuels ISIS/the taliban/etc) impossible. If the world could just take 20 minutes of its´ time to spend on explaining/teaching/arguing my work/theory, then the war on terror would be over – otherwise it will persist as long as people have no actual, logical theory about their existence and thus believe in bronze-age marketing tricks.
——-
The theory of evolution begins with the first reproducing shape. It was a shape that assembled surrounding mass into a similar shape. The existential theory predicts the existence of infinitely many such shapes. What inevitable becomes true when you have reproduction is that some die and some survive (life and death), that the number of offspring that shape make matters and that there is mutations over time. This is true about the shape´s offspring: some will die and some will survive, the number of offspring they make matters and the offspring can be different from the original shape. These three rules / laws of nature were inactive before the first reproduction occurred. The next main event was that one of these shapes found that if it injected its DNA into other shapes´ reproductive mechanism, it exploited principle number two: that the number of offspring matters. It was the first virus: it hijacked others´ reproduction. The rule / law of nature that came into play with this event was that “power” matters: hijacking others´ reproductive mechanism gives evolutionary benefits. Now we´ve listed the four main rules that govern evolutionary theory: first came the three first, and then came the forth: power. The next main event – to guard against viruses taking over all life / reproductive mechanisms – was that an immune system evolved to protect against virus´ hijack attempts. This required multicellularism. Just like immune systems prompt/require multicellularism, immune systems prompt/require multigenderedism: to win in the arms race against quickly mutating viruses two genders arose to amplify the mutations to the immune system. Mixing genes from two genders creates a more mutated immune system, which can keep ahead in the arms race against quickly-mutating viruses “trying” to mutate to bypass any immune system. The next main event is that one of these multicellular organisms – a fish or worm – of the male gender mutated to be agressive and defeat other males in battle. He would´ve gotten access to many more females than his non-agressive counter-parts. This too can be called “power” because the agressive male hijacks other male´s access to females by killing the males. This prompts the dinosaurs because larger muscle mass and shaper weaponry is better at killing off competitors. Amongst the dinosaurs there was the mother-offspring bond, placed there by evolution for the evolutionary benefits a mother gets from seeing an offspring survive to adulthood. This bond mutated to involve flock-members because a group working together out-competes any individualists when fighting over anything. The next main event was that someone mapped the flock, in his brain, as a hierarchy (up-down-axis) with the longing to dominate peers.
Posted on
07/05/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
Dude, evolution has me try to maximize evolutionary benefits using my plans; im always thinking at full speed and pain drives that thinking. And i know for certain that all this pain is meaningless. Its a suicide recipe but what prevents me from suicide is the natural strength that stems from being the pinnacle of beasts who all have survived for generations.
Posted on
05/05/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
Audios
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/Voice-005.m4a
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/Voice-006.m4a
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/Voice-008.m4a
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/Voice-009.m4a
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/Voice-010.m4a
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/Voice-003.m4a
Posted on
05/05/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Audios
My religion is to bitchslap Reality and then laugh about the attempt to bitchslap it.
Bön (=skratt) i storlek-tid. Stressen går ut = det är det helande miraklet. Den heliga skriften är ett skämt.
Jag gör en beskrivning av verkligheten, skrattar åt meningslösheten/grymheten/depressionen i den. T.ex. “storlek-tid”.
Vapnet i det heliga kriget är humor.
Posted on
04/05/2017
04/05/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
New book 2017
Chapter 1:
What problem does this solve?
This solves a problem that becomes most visible 60 years from now when sea-levels rise, the economy goes into permanent decline and oil ends. That´s when humans start to fight (and belong in world-view-based groups to do so). While the economy is still rising the clashes are few and far between – Afghanistan, Syria, ISIS´ world-wide terror attacks (mainly muslim world-views clashing with tolerant world-views). When the economy starts declining there´ll naturally be more friction between groups, and groups are made up of world-views (people identify as in a group based on world-view).
Advancing the scientific world-view to the level where it explains our origin and thus invades religious intellectual turf, solves the problem of world-views colliding as war.
Chapter 2:
Certain truth – I think & I am
You have a composite certain truth consisting of two certain truths: you can claim as certain that you think (because if you were being fooled: being fooled is thinking) and that you exist (because being fooled requires the one who is fooled to be there). I think and I exist is one statement but two truths. You can certainly claim to have “distinction” because you´re dealing with multiple separate distinct entities (such as “I” and “thought”). One could put it, while seeing the certain truths “I think” and “I exist”, that the space between the two notions (thinker and thought) is the hallmark of distinction. The distance separating thinker from thought we can recognize as necessary for “distinction” to be concluded as a certain truth arising, in a next logical step, from the original primary certain truth.
Everyone agrees they they themselves exist, because if one would get fooled in everyone one can be fooled in then one would exist there anyway and be fooled. So one knows that one exists. Then one also knows that one thinks because “to get fooled” is a thought-process. Thus we have two things: I think and I exist. And the distinction between them: and on the flipside of the paper we have the opposite of that: anti-distinction, and this can also be called “that of which all is part”/Reality. And since we are in the distinction-side of the paper when we see something; when we see something there is distinction between us and that thing. Thus we cannot represent or see that which is on the other side of the paper i.e. that of which all is part / Reality. Nothing can represent – because it is distinct – Reality. So whatever which is distinct cannot… whatever that is observed or represented is distinct and therefore is not… therefore does not represent Reality / “that of which all is part”. So we have distinction and anti-distinction as opposing poles.
You have a certain truth which everyone in the whole world agrees upon. You think and you exist since if you were being fooled by an almighty demon you´d still both think and exist. Then there are two things i.e. distinction. All is part of a single reality which is anti-distinction, there are no separate parts: reality is one. If we put distinction on the left side of the paper and anti-distinction on the right side then (we) distinction cannot see that of which all is part because “to see” is “to represent” and then one uses something to refer to reality. There is nothing outside reality which can refer to reality but instead reality is defined as “that of which all is part” and then there is nothing that can refer to all of reality. The opposition between the two sides of the paper (distinction & anti-distinction) makes reality as “that of which all is part”-anti-distinction non-representable because representation always involves distinction. What we see, for example, is just parts of reality. The hypotheses can be infinitely much so there is infinitely much to reality. Sizes and times, that is. In the existential theory (“why we exist”) there, thus, is an infinite size-range with time, energymass in spacetime (everything and nothing intertwined like in the E=mc2 equation – energy equals mass times, well – spacetime; multiplication is what unites energymass with spacetime). Then we have distinction and anti-distinction: separate things but all is part of a single reality. The existential theory with its three pillars, that is an infinite sizerange, energymasspacetime and distinction-anti-distinction-opposition, predicts that there should be a tiny piece of DNA which copies itself.
Then there´s another kind of revelation that got respect. Descartes who lived in the 1600s got respect, fame and was invited to live with the Queen of Sweden because he had gotten an idea which certainly told us something true. Revelations can either be con men´s statements like they were from ape-man and forward, or they can actually claim something which is verifyably true. Descartes, propably having his mind overcrowded by the masses of revelations that had accumulated to his time, asked: “what would be true if all my statements were false?”. What would remain if I tossed all my knowledge and ideas into the trash? Are we stuck with countless unverifyable statements, some contradicting eachother, not knowing which ones are true and which ones are not? Obviously not since statements about architecture are obviously true since they build houses, while contradictory statements do not. So Descartes dared to throw all his knowledge in the trash to see what remained. He found certain truth: that he exists – because even if he was wrong or was being fooled in everything he thought to be true, there´d still be a “he” there. He certainly exists no matter what. Same thing goes for thoughts: being wrong or being fooled is a thinking-process so even if he was wrong or was being fooled in everything he thought, there´d still be thought.
Socrates: So he figured out that he thinks and he exists.
God: These are not one statement – they are two.
Socrates: What does that mean?
God: I´ll tell you later – just agree with me that there is distinction between thinker and thought – that the statements are two. It´s building on certain truth, and it´s possible to build a whole… whatever it is that “saves the world” from the coming economic decline by having everyone build on certain truth until the God-debate is settled. Remembering “distinction” (between thinker and thought) will prevent the horror-scenario of large-scale future wars between people group-bound by religions, and instead – since everyone built a whole world-view on certain truth – have a more stable decline in the future. “Distinction” i.e. remembering that there are two certain truths (thinker and thought) is a step on the way toward a plan that will save humanity from destroying itself as much as it would if we didn´t build our world-views on certain truth.
Plato: So after an era of “revelation”-revelations invented by anyone for whatever purpose, coming from Darwin´s ape-man´s revelations, Descartes, in the 1600s, invented a revelation – certain truth: I think and I exist – which got him invited to the Queen of Sweden for the rest of his life. People have always liked revelations and even verifyable truth-claims like Descartes´ get respect.
God: I have set it as true that each one of you humans can verify in your own mind´s eye that you do certainly exist and that there certainly is thought – and thus there is distinction.
Darwin: Distinction is an abstract word. That two objects are separate/different from one another is one of those notions and ape-man never made into language – there was never the evolutionary need to talk about “distinction”. Yes: one could say that one banana is different from another (and one wants the bigger one), but to have Distinction exist stand-alone as a distinct notion is abstract thinking and we are not evolved to do that. For millions of years the caveman word for “distinction” was only used in a sentance – not stand-alone as in “distinction certainly exists because thinker and thought are both certain truths”.
Chapter 3:
Distinction-antidistinction-opposition
The first proof for that the size-time-diagram is infinite is distinction´s (our) inability to see/represent anti-distinction.
Chapter 4:
Maximum size?
The second prooof for that the size-time-diagram is infinite is that if we imagine a partless anti-distinction then it has no distinction as in a “maximum” or “minimum” size, i.e. the size-range is infinite.
Chapter 5:
Infinite size-time-diagram
Chapter 6:
Existential theory´s 3 pillars
Chapter 7:
Prediction of DNA
Posted on
04/05/2017
04/05/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on New book 2017
Posted on
27/04/2017
Categories
Most important posts
Leave a comment
on
Om anledningen till att religiösa krig fortsätter är att Jonatan inte fått en riskkapitalist att köpa volvo, villa, vovve för att skriva bättre… …så måste något radikalt göras, tänkar Jonatan när han röker på.
Posted on
26/04/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
Everyone agrees on that reality is one. Because it´s one nothing can represent it, because the representer too should be part of reality. That means that there is a size-time-diagram which is infinite. And that´s why we exist. Everyone agrees on this eventhough we are distinct unique individuals. We have this world-view incommon, with extraterrestrials too.
Posted on
26/04/2017
27/04/2017
Categories
Most important posts
Leave a comment
on
Pre
The text begins with certain truth, goes on to explaining why something exists rather than nothing (the existential theory – why we exist), and then goes on to evolutionary theory which is predicted by the existential theory and explains everday occurances.
Posted on
26/04/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Pre
Posts navigation
Page
1
Page
2
…
Page
13
Next page
Proudly powered by WordPress

Jonatan Mustonen – yonis1@gmail.com – A generalization of all existing science – the proof for that religion is unnecessary (like an appendix)
Skip to content
Jonatan Mustonen – yonis1@gmail.com
A generalization of all existing science – the proof for that religion is unnecessary (like an appendix)
Menu and widgets
Search for:
Recent Posts
Important Semi-Book 2017
Swedish important semi-book 2017
1112
1101
Audios
Recent Comments
Dagbok/diary 1 april 2017 – Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
on
Action thriller scifi book
Archives
May 2017
April 2017
March 2017
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
January 2016
Categories
Dagbok
Most important posts
The book + diagrams
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.org
Important Semi-Book 2017
The text begins with certain truth, goes on to explaining why something exists rather than nothing (the existential theory – why we exist), and then goes on to evolutionary theory which is predicted by the existential theory and explains everday occurances.
You know for certain that you think and that you exist because even if an almighty demon was fooling you in everything you can possibly be fooled in, the fooling itself is a thought-process and therefore you know that thought exists (you think), and for you to be fooled you have to exist and therefore you know “I exist”. Being fooled is thinking and a thinker is necessary for there to be someone to be fooled. So you know: no matter what, you think and you exist. Those are two things, right? They´re both part of the same brain and the thought-process can become the analytical toolkit/thinker, but still we recognize that there are distinct entities – there is distinction. This can also be called separation. What is distinction´s opposite, anti-distinction? It´s one reality; that of which all is part; it´s one and reality´s definition in the dictionary is that all is part of it. If we write distinction (thinker and thought) on the left side of the paper and anti-distinction (reality; that of which all is part; one) on the right side of the paper – can the left side see the right side? No, because of opposition between distinction and anti-distinction. Because of there always being an observer (a thinker) and thus distinction in every observation and thus anti-distinction can´t be represented/seen.
The brain evolved to deal with natural occurances – there was never an event in history where something invisible was to be contemplated and dealt with. Thus we seem to assume that the thought-process went wrong when we say that distinction/us can´t see anti-distinction/reality. But the thought-process didn´t go wrong: all that it means is that there is more to reality than can be represented. Regardless of how vaguely “represents” is defined, say a coffee cup – regardless of brains being involved – is assumed to try to represent that of which all is part, then anti-dinstinction – distinction – opposition (the opposition between distinction and it´s opposite) makes the representation incorrect. We can ask if there in an anti-distinct “thing” is a maximum size and thus distinction? No. Likewise, another proof for that the size-range is infinite is that we do sense something (our everyday world) and can make hypotheses ad infinitum, and yet nothing represents ALL OF reality. Reality i.e. size-time thus is infinite.
The infinite size-range is one pillar in the existential theory. Another pillar is energymass and spacetime being opposites but intertwined as in E=mc
2
(where c
2
refers to a speed which is space over time: spacetime). Multiplication joins energymass together with spacetime; nothing together with something/everything; existence together with non-existence. Why is there existence the shape of my body? Without going into the historical answer, one can explain it by saying that the body is something in (intertwined with) nothing, of a size in an infinite size-range (where the relationship between any two sizes (or objects of two sizes) is that they make sense of i.e. justify one another). Then there too, as a third pillar, is distinction-anti-distinction-opposition i.e. we live in a single (not plural) reality but we see distinct/separate entities such as thinker and thought.
Speaking of spacetime, spacetime is the logical starting point for the time-based existential theory. Nothingness (empty space) needs no prior justification nor reason to exist, because it doesn´t exist. In it, however, laws of nature are true i.e. it is not irrational / anti-logical, and among the many laws of nature there are those, including E=mc
2
, which mention energymass. Could energymass be “mentioned” without it existing? If yes, it would be absurd / anti-logical. Why would reality mention things that never exist? But since laws of nature are firm and because of our rule “what is mentioned must exist or must be summoned” we get, wherever (in the smallest spaces) that E=mc
2
is mentioned, existence and thus dense existence: a big bang. The fact that galaxies are speeding away acceleratingly from one another leads to nothingness in the future, and with the middleman “laws of nature” again energymass is summoned as dense as can be. No time-delay between nothingness – laws of nature – energymass but as soon as a bordered (by event horizons which are determined by the finite speed of light) region becomes nothingness, a big bang occurs and eventually becomes nothingness bordered by event horizons again. This is the time-wise description of why energymass (which exists intertwined with spacetime as in E=mc
2
) starts dense and becomes nothingness, and repeats.
All of the above is a rival theory to “God created earth in 6 days and rested on the 7th”. It is unintuitive because it deals with things we didn´t have to deal with in evolution: invisible energymasspacetime/reality/anti-distinction as a part of reasoning. It also has a multi-reason cause for our existence: a time-wise rationale involving the beginning and end of the big bang combined with a 3-pillar existential theory which justifies size and energymass. It is abstract/scientific but can´t be reduced into simpler terms. It´s the lowest common denominator that everyone can believe in (regardless of religion).
How vaguely has reality defined ”to represent”?
Infinitely vaguely – anything can represent anything.
Is the representation/representer reality or Allah?
No.
Can anything represent that of which all is part?
No.
Then the size-time-diagram is infinite i.e. nothing represents reality. How many is it? How many is Allah? 1.
Did it say…, or did it write a book?
This disproves Allah writing the Quran.
Again: how much of reality can be represented by, say, a painting? The whole of it?
No, the whole of reality cannot be represented. Just like Allah can´t be captured in a picture/word.
We can have hypotheses – how many hypotheses can we have?
If reality is sizes & times, energymass and spacetime then the square-shaped size-time-diagram with energymasspacetime in each coordinate is the universal way to represent all there is to represent.
Does it write books? No, it is not of such authorship-kind nature.
“God said to Muhammed word by word…” is thus a false or at most metaphorical statement.
“You have to do rituals in order not to go to hell, and in heaven you get 72 virgins” is by the same logic also a false claim.
There are three alternatives as the foundation for this logic – can you think of a 4
th
one?
1: Reality is a synonym for Allah
2: or Allah doesn´t exist
3: or there are 72 virgins (not an alternative because reality is not of the nature, because it is size-time-energymasspacetime, to write books).
In addition to the square size-time diagram with infinity symbols in each of it´s corners, and the evolutionary triangle which designates that life becomes more complex as time goes on (the triangle originates at the central size of the known size-range), there is the following brain diagram:
The existential theory with its three pillars, that is an infinite sizerange, energymasspacetime and distinction-anti-distinction-opposition, predicts that there should be a tiny piece of DNA which copies itself. When we have a tiny piece of DNA which copies itself we have three rules which come into play: that some survive and others die, that the number of copies you make has significance and that there is mutation (changes over generation-shifts). These three rules god said directly when the first copying/reproduction occurred. Then these single-celled organisms copy themselves for a while. Then there´s an organism which invents that it can inject its DNA into others´ cells – a virus. It then uses a new mechanism which takes advantage of the reproductive mechanism in other cells. This phenomenon of using others´ reproductive mechanism to make one´s own offspring we can call “power”. First came the three rules – survive, offspring and mutation – then some millions of years passed, then came the worth rule (hijack someone else´s reproductive system like viruses do). Rule number four came first later – it exploits rule number two (that the number of offspring has significance). Then we have viruses and “normal” organisms, and there´s an arms race between them: the viruses mutate and the only way for our organisms to win is for them to become multicellular and get an immune system. And how do you gain more mutations to the immune system? Well, you have two genders. So two-genderedness came from combating viruses – one mutates one´s immune system more. When we have two genders there is the difference that girls have one egg while the males have lots of sperm and then the guys start fighting each other to get the girls. Then it´s the largest one with the sharpest teeth that wins and this happens generation after generation and thus we get the dinosaurs. Among the dinosaurs there was the bond between mother and offspring and it evolves to involve group-members because if a group and an individualist end up in a conflict (fight over resources, females and such) the group wins because it fights as a group instead of as an individual. It was an evolutionary benefit to mutate the mother-offspring-bond to involve group-members. Then someone in the group (now we have some kind of wolves or dogs) mutated the up-down-axis which we have inside our heads: socioeconomic status, the hierarchy, power. He wanted to create a political system where he recruits some males to protect him and themselves from the slaves that were kept outside the flock – that is the same organization which one has in dogs, walruses and humans. First we evolved the mother-offspring-bond, then evolution created the up-down-axis where our body is someone on it and we want upwards in it. One can see it with cells – cells which in space are distributed so that you have up and down and you have a strong urge to gain upwardness. The anatomy of power is important for the whole world to understand to cultivate civilization over short-term greed.
You have a composite certain truth consisting of two certain truths: you can claim as certain that you think (because if you were being fooled: being fooled is thinking) and that you exist (because being fooled requires the one who is fooled to be there). I think and I exist is one statement but two truths. You can certainly claim to have “distinction” because you´re dealing with multiple separate distinct entities (such as “I” and “thought”). One could put it, while seeing the certain truths “I think” and “I exist”, that the space between the two notions (thinker and thought) is the hallmark of distinction. The distance separating thinker from thought we can recognize as necessary for “distinction” to be concluded as a certain truth arising, in a next logical step, from the original primary certain truth.
Are all distinct entities part of a single reality if “reality” is defined as “that of which all is part”? In other words: if we draw distinction on the left side of a paper and anti-distinction (distinction´s opposite: a singular reality – that of which all is part. Zooming out summarizing maximally) on the right side of the paper, then can distinction represent the right side of the paper i.e. anti-distinction? How could some distinct entities depict the very opposite of what representation/distinction is? Any depiction/representation of anti-distinction/reality has at least three entities: thinker, space between thinker and thought, and thought. Separation/distinction is inherent in representation, thus anti-distinction is unrepresentable.
How vaguely has the universe/God defined what a representation is i.e. when a representation occurs? Our brains use neurons to represent, but what if – instead of neurons (regardless of brains) – the universe wills that any random object can be said to, as neurons do, represent reality? The universe has defined “representation” infinitely vaguely i.e. disregarding brains, any random object spontaneously is the symbol standing for all of reality – because the universe defines “represents” infinitely vaguely. Despite the infinitely vague definition of what represents what, distinction-anti-distinction-opposition (the line separating the left side of the paper from the right side; the countering of distinction with anti-distinction) means that reality is not representable. If reality is anti-distinction then no distinction (representation is inherently distinction) can even, despite an infinitely vague definition of “represents”, capture reality. In representations we can count at least three things and what we´re trying to capture is one thing with nothing outside it. The fact that representations contain distinction makes capturing reality (all is one) impossible.
We can have infinitely many or infinitely large/substancefull representations/hypotheses – such as an infinite size-time-diagram – and though abstractly accurately pointing to reality, the universe´s rule that nothing represents reality despite infinitely vaguely allowed representations of infinitely much, makes reality unrepresentable. This can only mean one thing: reality – which we know as sizes and times (a size-time-diagram) – is infinite. There´s infinitely large and infinitely small with infinitely much past and infinitely much future. This square-shaped size-time-diagram i.e. our everyday experience of size-time has infinities all-over the place.
Energymass in spacetime: one in zero, existence in non-existence, something in nothing – as defined by E=mc
2
where c
2
stands for speed (distance over time i.e. spacetime/zero/non-existence) and E=m referring to energymass (existence, something, all).
Distinction-anti-distinction-opposition: we live in a singular reality but we see multiple objects.
An infinite size-range.
The above three ideas are an existential theory (a theory which explains the existence of a reproducing shape and thus the dawn of evolution and thus our existence). It is modern to utilize three equal ideas to explain one´s existence – all previous existential theories used either a single idea (monotheism) or a saga (multiple mundane (not very scientific/abstract) ideas) to explain existence.
The predictive quality that makes this existential theory a scientific theory is that it, basing it off an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime and distinction-anti-distinction-opposition, predicts that in an infinite size-range there ought to be a size where reproduction occurs. The existential theory predicts the first DNA, and from there we get to the evolutionary theory.
Another predictive quality is that the theory predicts a
dense
Big Bang. The a priori beginning of the universe logically is emptiness because emptiness doesn´t need any prior logical justification for its existence because it doesn´t exist. In emptiness laws of nature are true, such as the laws pointing toward and handleing energymass (like E=mc
2
), and thus the Big Bang begins infinitely dense because E=mc
2
is equally true simultaneously in the smallest of spaces. Tiny empty spaces having E=mc
2
be true in them simultaneously and directly as there was nothingness predicts a dense Big Bang. A region, contained within event horizons made out of energymasses speeding away at >c (due to dark energy causing accelerating cosmic expansion), is by definition “nothing” in which E=mc
2
being true in the tiniest spaces summons a dense big bang out of reach of the closest (v = >c) energymass. Nothingness (out of reach for the closest energymasses because they are speeding away at >c) is summoned in the central point with event horizons as the furthest away border, causing Big Bang (due to laws of nature summoning energymass in the empty center).
The theory of evolution begins with the first reproducing shape. It was a shape that assembled surrounding mass into a similar shape. The existential theory predicts the existence of infinitely many such shapes. What inevitable becomes true when you have reproduction is that some die and some survive (life and death), that the number of offspring that shape make matters and that there is mutations over time. This is true about the shape´s offspring: some will die and some will survive, the number of offspring they make matters and the offspring can be different from the original shape. These three rules / laws of nature were inactive before the first reproduction occurred. The next main event was that one of these shapes found that if it injected its DNA into other shapes´ reproductive mechanism, it exploited principle number two: that the number of offspring matters. It was the first virus: it hijacked others´ reproduction. The rule / law of nature that came into play with this event was that “power” matters: hijacking others´ reproductive mechanism gives evolutionary benefits. Now we´ve listed the four main rules that govern evolutionary theory: first came the three first, and then came the forth: power. The next main event – to guard against viruses taking over all life / reproductive mechanisms – was that an immune system evolved to protect against virus´ hijack attempts. This required multicellularism. Just like immune systems prompt/require multicellularism, immune systems prompt/require multigenderedism: to win in the arms race against quickly mutating viruses two genders arose to amplify the mutations to the immune system. Mixing genes from two genders creates a more mutated immune system, which can keep ahead in the arms race against quickly-mutating viruses “trying” to mutate to bypass any immune system. The next main event is that one of these multicellular organisms – a fish or worm – of the male gender mutated to be aggressive and defeat other males in battle. He would´ve gotten access to many more females than his non-aggressive counter-parts. This too can be called “power” because the aggressive male hijacks other male´s access to females by killing the males. This prompts the dinosaurs because larger muscle mass and shaper weaponry is better at killing off competitors. Amongst the dinosaurs there was the mother-offspring bond, placed there by evolution for the evolutionary benefits a mother gets from seeing an offspring survive to adulthood. This bond mutated to involve flock-members because a group working together out-competes any individualists when fighting over anything. The next main event was that someone mapped the flock, in his brain, as a hierarchy (up-down-axis) with the longing to be the top of the hierarchy. This capitalist striving for the top made brains grew larger – larger memory-banks, more accurate predictions and faster planning are all advantages coming from a larger cortex.
It is a major historical event that there finally is an atheistic argument that is shaped like a university course: it is an existential theory plus evolution which not only doesn´t need a personified god to function, but the pillars (infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime and distinction-anti-distinction-opposition) can´t have a personified god added to them as a 4th pillar without the theory sounding ridicilous. Not only does the theory not need a personified god but adding a god destroys the minimalistic rationally complete beauty of the theory. Gods uglify the theory. The dawn of the theory is a major historical event because never before has an entire course (beginning with certain truth, going through the existential theory and ending in evolution) been laid out in the intellectual debate of atheism, as an argument against a personified god.
The anatomy in the brain from hearing certain truth (I think & I am) – the beginning of the course – creates the same neuronal pathways / associations between ideas in every single person who knows certain truth. The logical step to “distinction” is noting, as a meta-analysis of the primary certain truth, that one has many ideas (I think AND I am) and that one can take logical pathways to the next step in the course (distinction exists). Then juxtaposing anti-distinction with distinction creates the unseeable – “defying reason” (because reason is, in simple people, only visual) – conclusion that we/distinction cannot see reality/anti-distinction. The distinction-anti-distinction-opposition is hard to grasp because it – like formal logic or math – uses words instead of pictures (the linguistic brainhalf rather than the visual one). We evolved to be like “if I see it I believe it” and that was a good heuristic (rule of thumb) because practical sequences of events can be verified as true or untrue by visualizing them. But in this philosophy: no – it has to be linguistic that we deny ourselves the concept “all of reality”, leading to the conclusion that there is more to reality than anything – however vaguely the universe has defined “represent” – can represent. This adds infinitely many sizes to our abstract size-range / size-time-diagram; it makes a square (with size on the y-axis and time on the x-axis) with infinity symbols in each corner, which in turn becomes a pillar in our personified-god-denying existential theory.
To come from certain truth, through mere logical steps (meta-analyses and juxtaposition of opposites), to an existential theory which predicts evolution is a major historical event in the history of atheism.
In a historical context the anatomy (neural connections between ideas and sequences of logic) created by this course is like a paradigm-shift into a new era of earth society – an era similar to that existent on infinitely many other planets who have come further than our midway-mark in a regular water-bearing planet´s history.
Evolution, by beginning with “a mass that can assemble surrounding mass into a similar shape” steps forth from the existential theory´s infinite size-range of energymasspacetime. Assuming DNA is the replication-molecule, we can step – skipping over how cell walls evolved etc – to the fact that viruses mutate to hijack others´ reproductive system. This – in this universal inter-planetary extraterrestrial culture – is formulated, in books of logic, as first three rules arising (life/death, number of offspring matters and “there is mutation in each generation-shift”) and then a forth rule arising (power, with viruses). This story – which in our course begins from a first reproducing shape and ends with finessing the anatomy of power in men – is visualizable like the caveman story-telling narratives we evolved to hear/see. We can proof-check its validity/possibility by following the narrative visually. The visual nature of evolution is in stark contrast to the purely linguistic/abstract nature of the existential theory.
Speaking of “abstract” descriptions i.e. descriptions that make it very clear to us that our understanding of the universe is a mere map (a reference) and not reality itself (mind you of Plato´s or Kant´s cave-metaphor and “the thing is not the thing itself” -philosophies)… The size-range of energymasspacetime, at the size of quantum physics has us describe photons etc using both the wave-description which focuses on lengths of space (this is the “spacetime description”) AND – in wave-particle duality – the energymass description that the energy of a photon is its color. Color (as perceived through the eyes), wave/spacetime-description and particle-energy/energymass-description all are valid descriptors of quantum particles. This ability of ours to describe any mass/phenomenon using both energymass- and spacetime-descriptions runs throughout the entire size-range. You can imagine two lines – one representing energymass and the other representing spacetime – running vertically through the pictures on the size-axis. Adding complexity to this, there is likewise two lines – gravity and electromagnetism – both running through the size-axis, gravity having it´s duality of energymass and spacetime descriptions and electromagnetism too having both, in every level of the size-range, energymass and spacetime descriptions. Gravity is both Newtonian “masses pulling toward masses” (energymass´ focus on mass) and Einsteinian “curvature of spacetime” (spacetime´s focus on space) – both descriptors are accurate.
Jonatan Mustonen
Posted on
08/05/2017
17/05/2017
Categories
Most important posts
Leave a comment
on Important Semi-Book 2017
Swedish important semi-book 2017
Texten börjar med säker sanning, sedan går den till att förklara varför någonting existerar istället för ingenting (den existentiella teorin – varför vi existerar), sedan går den till evolutionär teori vilket förutsägs av den existentiella teorin. Den evolutionära teorin förklarar vardagsfenomen.
Du vet med säkerhet att du tänker och att du existerar eftersom om du skulle bliva lurad av en allsmäktig demon som försöker lura dig i allt du kan bli lurad i, så är lurendrejeriet i sig en tanke-process och därför vet du att tankar existerar (du tänker). För att du ska bli lurad så måste du existera och därför vet du ”jag existerar”. Att bli lurad är en tankeprocess och tänkaren är nödvändig för att det ska finnas någon som blir lurad. Så du vet: oavsett vad så tänker du och existerar du. Åvanstående är två saker, eller hur? De är båda del av samma hjärna och samma tankeprocess kan bli ens analytiska verktygssats/tänkare, men vi erkänner ändå att det finns distinkta entiteter – att det finns distinktion. Detta kan också kallas separation. Vad är distinktions motsats, anti-distinktion? Det är en verklighet; det som allt är del av; den är en och dess definition i ordboken är att allt är del av den. Om vi skriver distinktion (tänkare och tanke) på vänster sida av ett papper och anti-distinktion (verkligheten; det som allt är del av; en) på höger sida av pappret – kan den vänstra sidan se den högra sidan? Nej, för att oppositionen mellan distinktion och anti-distinktion. Det finns alltid en observerare (tänkaren) och därmed distinktion i varje observation och därmed kan anti-distinktion ej representeras/ses.
Hjärnan evolverade för att hantera naturliga fenomen – det fanns aldrig ett scenario i historien då någonting osynligt behövde hanteras och betänkas. Därför antar vi att tanke-processen blev fel när vi säger att distinktion/vi inte kan se anti-distinktion/verkligheten. Men tankeprocessen gick inte fel: allt det betyder är att det finns mer till verkligheten än kan representeras. Oavsett hur vagt ”representeras” är definierat, låt oss säga att en kaffekopp – oavsett om hjärnor är involverade eller inte – antas försöka representera det som allt är del av, då gör anti-distinktions-distinktions-oppositionen (motsättningen mellan distinktion och dess motsats) att representationen är inkorrekt. Vi kan fråga om en anti-distinkt ”sak” har en maximumstorlek och därmed distinktion? Nej. På samma not är ett annat bevis för att storleksskalan är oändlig är att vi ser någonting (vår vardagsvärld) samt kan göra hypoteser ad infinitum, och ändå representerar ingenting ALL verklighet. Verkligheten dvs storlek-tid är därför oändligt.
En oändlig storleksskala är en av pelarna i den existentiella teorin. En annan pelare är att energimassa och rumtid är motsatser (opposition) men sammanflätade såsom i E=mc
2
(där c
2
hänvisar till en hastighet dvs rum över tid: rumtid). Multiplikationen sammanför energimassa tillsammans med rumtid; ingenting tillsammans med någonting/allting; existens tillsammans med icke-existens. Varför finns det existens i form av min kropp? Utan att gå in i det historiska svaret så kan man förklara det genom att säga att kroppen är någonting i (sammanflätat med) ingenting, av en storlek i en oändlig storleks-skala (där relationen mellan vilka två storlekar som helst (eller objekt av två storlekar) är att de är förklaringen till varandra dvs rättfärdigar varandra. Sedan finns det också, som tredje pelare, distinktions-anti-distinktions-opposition dvs vi lever i en singular (ej plural) verklighet men ser distinkta/separata entiteter såsom tänkare och tanke.
På tal om rumtid, rumtid är den logiska startpunkten för den tidsbaserade existentiella teorin. Ingenting (tom rumtid) behöver inget inledande/tidigare rättfärdigande eller anledning att existera, för att det existerar inte. I den, hursomhelst, är naturlagarna sanna dvs den är inte irrationell / anti-logisk, och bland naturlagarna finns de som, inklusive E=mc
2
, som nämner energimassa. Skulle energimassa kunna ”nämnas” utan att det skulle existera? Om ”ja” så skulle det vara absurt / anti-logiskt. Varför skulle verkligheten nämna saker som aldrig existerar? Eftersom naturlagarna är strikta och tack vare vår regel ”det som nämns måste existera eller uppstå” så får vi, varän (i de minsta storlekarna) där E=mc
2
nämns, så finns existens och därför en tät big bang. Faktumet att galaxer rusar iväg accelererandes från varandra leder till ingenting (tom rymd) i framtiden, och med mellanhanden ”naturlagar” så uppstår energimassa igen så tät som den kan vara. Ingen tids-delay mellan ingenting – naturlagar – energimassa men så snart en begränsad (av event-horizons som bestäms av ljuset ändliga hastighet) region blir ingenting/tomrum, så uppstår en big bang som sedan genom kosmisk expansion blir ingenting igen, som sedan blir tomrum och en ny big bang igen. Detta är den tidsmässiga beskrivningen om varför energimassa (som existerar sammanflätad med rumtid såsom i E=mc
2
) börjar tät och blir ingenting, och sedan repetitation.
Det åvanstående är en rivalteori till ”Gud skapade jorden på 6 dagar och vilade på den sjunde”. Den är inte intuitiv eftersom den har att göra med saker som vi inte hade att göra med under evolutionen: osynliga energimassarumtid/verkligheten/anti-distinktion som del av vårt resonemang. Den har också en multi-anledning orsak för vår existens: en tidsvis rationale involverandes början och slutet på big bang, kombinerad med en 3-pelares existentiell teori som rättfärdigar storlek och energimassa. Den är abstrakt/vetenskaplig men kan inte reduceras till simplare termer. Det är den minsta gemensamma nämnaren som alla kan tro på (oavsett religion).
Hur vagt har verkligheten definerat ”att representera”?
Oändligt vagt – vad som helst kan representera vad som helst.
Är representationen/representören verkligheten eller Allah?
Nej.
Kan någonting representera det som allt är del av?
Nej.
Då är storleks-tids-diagrammet oändligt dvs inget representerar verkligheten. Hur många är den? Hur många är Allah? 1.
Sa den…, eller skrev den en bok?
Detta motbevisar att Allah skrev en bok.
Igen: hur mycket av verkligheten kan representeras av, säg, en målning? All den?
Nej, hela verkligheten kan ej representeras. Precis som Allah inte kan fångas i ett ord/en bild.
Vi kan ha hypoteser – hur många hypoteser kan vi ha?
Om verkligheten är storlekar och tider, energimassa och rumtid så är det rektangulära storleks-tids-diagrammet med energimassarumtid i varje koordinat det universella sättet att representera allt som finns att representera.
Skriver den böcker? Nej, den är inte av författarnatur.
”Gud sa till Muhammed ord för ord…” är alltså ett falskt eller som mest ett metaforiskt påstående.
”Du måste göra ritualer för att inte hamna i helvetet, och i himmelen får du 72 oskulder” är med samma logik också ett falskt påstående.
Det finns tre alternativ som fundament för denna logik – kan du tänka ut ett fjärde?
1: Verkligheten är ett synonym för Allah,
2: eller så finns inte Allah
3: eller så finns 72 oskulder (ej ett alternativ eftersom verkligheten inte är av den naturen, då den är storleks-tids-energimassarumtid, att den skriver böcker).
Som tillägg till det rektangulära storleks-tids-diagrammet med oändlighetssymboler i varje hörn, och den evolutionära triangeln som representerar att livet blev mer komplext ju mer tiden gick (triangelns spets har sitt ursprung i mittersta storleken i den kända storleksskalan), finns följande hjärn-diagram:
Den existentiella teorin med dess tre pelare, dvs en oändlig storleksskala, energimassarumtid och distinktions-anti-distinktions-opposition, förutsäger att det borde finnas en liten bit DNA som kopierar sig.
Evolutionsteorin börjar med den första reproducerande formen. Det var en form som samlande kringliggande massa till en liknande form. Den existentiella teorin förutsäger existensen av oändligt många sådana former. Det som oundvikligen blir sant när man har reproduktion är att vissa dör medan andra överlever (liv och död), att antalet avkomma/kopior formen gör har betydelse och att det finns mutationer över tid. Följande är sant om formens avkomma: vissa dör medan andra överlever, antalet avkomma har betydelse och avkomman är annorlunda från originalformen. Dessa tre regler / naturlagar var inaktiva innan den första reproduktionen skedde. Nästa stora steg var när ett av dessa former möjliggjorde för sig själv att injicera sitt DNA in i andra formers reproduktiva mekanism, vilket utnyttjade princip nr 2: att antalet avkomma har betydelse. Det var det första viruset: den hijackade andras reproduktion. Regeln / naturlagen som kom i spel i.om. denna händelse var att ”makt” har betydelse: att hijacka andras reproduktiva mekanism ger evolutionära fördelar. Nu har vi lagt fram de fyra huvudregelerna som är evolutionsteori: först kom de tre första reglerna, sedan kom den fjärde: makt. Nästa stora händelse – för att skydda mot att virus hijackar alla reproduktiva system – var att ett immunsystem evolverade för att skydda mot virus hijacks-försök. Detta behövde multicellulärism. Precis som immunsystem kräver multicellularism, så behöver immunsystem multikönadhet: för att vinna i kampen där virus muterar för att kringgå immunsystem så behöver immunsystemet också maximalt med mutation. Att mixa gener från två kön skapar ett mer muterat immunsystem, vilket håller ut i kampen mot virus där virus ”försöker” mutera sig runt immunsystemet. Den nästa stora händelsen var att en av dessa multicellulära organismer – en fisk eller mask – av det manliga könet muterade till att vara agressiv och förinta andra manliga varelser. Han skulle ha fått högre tillgång till kvinnliga organismer jämfört med hans icke-agressiva likar. Detta kan också kallas ”makt” eftersom agressiva hanar hijackar andra hanars tillgång till kvinnor genom att döda hanarna. Detta orsakar dinosaurierna eftersom större muskelmassa och skarpare vapen är bättre på att döda rivalerna. Bland dinosaurierna fanns moder-avkomma-bandet, ditplacerad av evolutionen eftersom det var en fördel för mödrar att se sina barn överleva till vuxenskap. Detta band muterade till att involvera flock-medlemmar eftersom en grupp sammarbetandes bättre kan vinna över individualister i bråk om vad som helst. Nästa stora steg var att någon kartlade flocken, i sin hjärna, som en hierarki (upp-ned-axeln) med en längtan efter att stå högst upp i hierarkin. Denna kapitalistiska tävlan mot toppen gjorde att hjärnan växte sig större – större minnesbank, mer detaljrika förutsägelser och snabbare planering är alla fördelar som kommer från att ha ett större kortex.
Du har en komposit-säker sanning beståendes av två säkra sanningar: du kan med säkerhet säga att du tänker (för att om du skulle bli lurad: att bli lurad är en tankeprocess) och att du existerar (eftersom att bli lurad kräver den som blir lurad). Jag tänker och jag finns är ett påstående men två sanningar. Du kan med säkerhet påstå dig ha ”distinktion” eftersom du har att göra med multipla separata entiteter (såsom ”jag” och ”tankar”). Man kan säga, när man ser den säkra sanningens ”jag tänker” och ”jag existerar”, att avståendet/mellanrummet mellan de två idéerna (tänkare och tanke) är distinktion. Avståendet/mellanrummet som separarar tänkare från tanke är nödvändigt för ”disktinktion” att härledas som säker sanning följandes ur nästa logiska steg, med ursprunget av den originella primära säkra sanningen.
Är alla distinkta entiteter del av en singulär verklighet om ”verkligheten” är definierad som ”det som allt är del av”? Med andra ord: om vi ritar distinktion på vänster sida av ett papper och anti-distinktion (distinktion´s motsats: en ensam verklighet – det som allt är del av. Zoomandes ut maximalt) på höger sida av pappret, kan då distinktion representera höger sida av pappret dvs anti-distinktion? Hur skulle någon distinkt entitet kunna vara/representera motsatsen till vad representation/distinktion är? Vilken representation som helst av anti-distinktion/verkligheten måste ha minst tre entiteter: tänkare, mellanrummet mellan tänkare och tanke, och tanke.
Separation/distinktion är antaget i representation, vilket innebär att anti-distinktion är orepreserbart.
Hur vagt har universum/Gud definerat vad en representation är dvs när en representation sker? Våra hjärnor använder neuroner för att representera, men vad sägs om – istället för neuroner (oavsett om hjärnor är inblandade eller inte) – universum låter vilket slumpmässigt valt objekt som helst låta sig sägas, såsom neuroner sägs, representera verkligheten? Universum har definierat ”representation” oändligt vagt dvs uteslutandes hjärnor så kan vilket slumpmässigt objekt som helst spotant bli/vara symbolen för all verklighet – för att universum har definierat ”representera” oändligt vagt. Trots den oändligt vaga definitionen av vad som representerar vad, så gör distinktions-anti-distinktions-oppositionen (linjen som separerar vänster sida av pappret från höger sida; motsättningen mellan distinktion och anti-distinktion) att verkligheten är orepresenterbar. Om verkligheten är anti-distinktion då finns ingen distinktion (representation är oundvikligen distinktion), trots universums oändligt vaga definition av ”representera”, fånga verkligheten. I representationer kan vi räkna minst tre saker och det vi försöker representera är en sak utan någonting utanför den. Faktumet att representationer innehåller distinktion gör att att fånga verkligheten (allt som ett) omöjligt.
Vi kan ha oändligt många eller oändligt innehållsfulla/stora representationer/hypoteser – såsom ett oändligt storleks-tids-diagram – och genom att abstrakt peka till verkligheten, så gör universums regel att ingenting representerar verkligheten trots universums oändligt vaga definition av ”representera” av oändligt mycket, gör verkligheten orepresenterbar. Detta kan bara betyda en sak: verkligheten – som vi känner som storlekar och tider (ett storleks-tids-diagram) – är oändligt. Det finns oändligt stort och oändligt litet med oändligt mycket dåtid och oändligt mycket framtid. Detta rektangulära storleks-tids-diagram dvs vår vardagsvärld av storlek-tid har oändligheter överallt.
Energimassa i rumtid: ett i noll, existens i icke-existens, någonting i ingenting – såsom definierats av E=mc
2
där c
2
står för ljusets hastighet (rum över tid dvs rumtid/noll/icke-existens) och E=m refererar till energimassa (existens, någonting, allt).
Distinktions-anti-distinktions-opposition: vi lever i en singulär verklighet men vi ser multipla objekt.
En oändlig storleksskala.
De åvanstående tre idéerna är en existentiell teori (en teori som förklarar existensen av en reproduktiv form dvs evolutions början dvs vår existens). Det är modernt att använda sig av tre likvärdiga idéer för att förklara ens existens – alla tidigare existentiella teorier har antingen använt en enda idé (monoteism) eller en saga/myt (många vardagliga (ej vetenskapliga/abstrakta) idéer) för att förklara existens.
Den förutsägande kvalitén som gör denna existentiella teori till en vetenskaplig teori är att den, baserat på en oändlig storleksskala av energimassarumtid och distinktions-anti-distinktions-opposition, förutsäger att det i en oändlig storleksskala borde finnas en storlek där reproduktion (DNA) sker. Den existentiella teorin förutsäger det första DNA:t, och från det får vi evolutionär teori.
En annan förutsägande kvalité är att teorin förutsäger att big bang borde varit
tät
. A-priori begynnelsen av universum är logiskt sett tomhet eftersom tomhet inte behöver någon tidigare/föreliggande logiskt rättfärdigande eftersom det ej existerar. I tom rumtid är naturlagarna sanna, såsom naturlagarna som hanterar energimassa (såsom E=mc
2
), och därför börjar big bang oändligt tät – för att E=mc
2
är lika sann samtidigt i de minsta storlekarna. De minsta tomma rymderna hade E=mc
2
som sann inom sig direkt när det fanns ingenting, vilket förutsäger en tät big bang. En region, inom event horizons gjorda av energimassa rusandes iväg i >c (pga mörk energi accelererandes kosmisk expansion) är per definition ”ingenting” i vilket E=mc
2
är sann i de minsta utrymmena, vilket åstadkommer en big bang utom räckhåll för de närmaste ( v = >c) energimassa. Ingenting (utom räckhåll för närmaste energimassa för att den är på väg bortåt i >c) orsakas i centrumpunkten som har event horizons som gräns längst bort, vilket leder till en big bang (eftersom naturlagarna uppbringar energimassa i det tomma centrumet).
Det är en stor historisk händelse att det äntligen finns ett ateistiskt argument i form av en universitetskurs: det är en existentiell teori plus evolution som inte behöver en personifierad gud för att fungera, utan dess pelare (oändlig storleksskala av energimassarumtid och distinktions-anti-distinktions-opposition) kan inte ha en personifierad gud tillagd till dem som en fjärde pelare utan att teorin låter löjlig. Det är inte bara så att teorin inte behöver en personifierad gud, utan att lägga till en gud förstör teorins minimalistiska rationellt kompletta skönhet. Gudar förfular teorin. Teorins upptäckt är en stor historisk händelse eftersom aldrig förr har en hel kurs (börjandes med säker sanning, gåendes genom den existentiella teorin och slutandes i evolution) lagts fram i ateismens intellektuella debatt, som ett argument mot en personifierad gud.
Anatomin i hjärnan från att höra säker sanning (jag tänker & jag finns) – början av denna kurs – skapar samma neuronala pathways / associationer mellan idéer i varje person som hör vet säker sanning. Det logiska steget till ”distinktion” är att notera, som meta-analys av den primära säkra sanningen – att man har många idéer (jag tänker OCH jag finns) och att man kan ta den logiska vägen till nästa steg i kursen (distinktion finns). Att sedan motsätta anti-distinktion med distinktion skapar den oförnimmbara – ”mot reson” (eftersom logik är, i simpla människor, enbart visuell) – slutsatsen att vi/distinktion inte kan se verkligheten/anti-distinktion. Distinktions-anti-distinktions-oppositionen är svårbegriplig för att den – såsom formell logik eller matematik – enbart använder ord istället för bilder (den lingvistiska hjärnhalvan istället för den visuella). Vi evolverade till att säga ”om jag kan se det så tror jag på det” och det är en god tumregel eftersom praktiska sekvenser händelser kan verifieras som sanna eller osanna genom att visualisera dem. Men i denna filosofi: nej – det måste vara lingvistiskt att vi förnekar oss själva konceptet ”all verklighet”, vilket leder till slutsatsen att det finns mer till verkligheten än någonting – oavsett hur vagt universum definerat ”att representera” – representerar. Detta tillägger oändligt många storlekar till vår abstrakta stoorleksskala / storleks-tids-diagrammet; det gör en rektangel (med storlek på y-axeln och tid på x-axeln) med oändlighetstecken i varje hörn, som i sin tur blir en pelare i vår personlig-gud-förnekande existentiella teori.
Att komma från säker sanningen genom enbart logiska steg (meta-analyser och motsättningsskapande av motsatser) till en existentiell teori som förutsäer evolutionen är en stor historisk händelse i ateismens historia.
I ett historiskt sammanhang är anatomin (neurala anslutningar mellan idéer och sekvenser logik) som skapas av denna kurs som ett paradigm-shifte in i en ny era av civilisation – en era liknande den som finns på oändligt många planeter vars vetenskap kommit längre än våra 4.5 miljarder års mittenpunkt i en vanlig vattenbärande planets historia.
Evolution, genom att börja från ”en massa som samlar kringliggande massa till en liknande form” kliver fram från den existentiella teorins oändliga storleksskala av energimassarumtid. Om vi antar att DNA är replikationsmolekylen så kan vi ta steget till – klivandes över hur cellväggar evolverade osv – till att virus hijackar andras reproduktiva system. Detta – i den universella inter-planetära rymdvarelsekulturen – formuleras som, i böcker av logik, som att de tre första reglerna uppkommer (liv/död, antalet avkomma har betydelse och ”det sker mutationer i varje generationsskifte”) och sedan att en fjärde regel uppkommer (makt, med virus). Denna historia – som i vår kurs börjar från den första reproduktiva formen och slutar i att finslipa anatomin bakom makt i män – är visualiseringsbar som en grottmanna-historias narrativ likt dem vi evolverade till att se/höra. Vi kan proof-checka/validera historian genom att se den visuellt. Evolutions visuella natur är i stark kontrast till den rent linguistiska/abstraka natur som den existentiella teorin har.
På tal om ”abstrakta” beskrivningar dvs beskrivningar som gör det väldigt klart för oss att vår förståelse av universum bara är en karta (en referens) och inte verkligheten i sig (tänk på Plato´s och Kant´s grottmetafor och ”saken är inte saken själv”-filosofier”)… Storleksskalan av energimassarumtid, i storleken av kvantfysik har oss beskrivandes fotoner etc användandes både våg-beskrivningar med fokus på längder i rymd (dessa är ”rumtids-beskrivningar”) OCH – i vår-partikel-dualitet – energimassabeskrivningen dvs att energin i en foton är dess färg. Färg (såsom den uppfattas genom ögonen), våg/rumtids-beskrivningen och partikel-energi/energimassa-beskrivningen är alla legitimea beskrivningar av kvantfysiken. Vår förmåga att beskriva vilken massa/vilket fenomen som helst med både energimassa- och rumtids-beskrivningar löper genom hela storleksskalan. Du kan föreställa dig två linjer – en för energimassa och en för rumtid – gåendes vertikalt genom alla bilder på storleks-axeln. Tilläggandes komplexitet på detta finns det två linjer till – tyngdlagen och elektromagnetism – båda gåendes längs storleks-axeln, tyngdlagen har dess dualitet av energimassa- och rumtids-beskrivningar och elektromagnetism likaså har desamma, dvs energimassa och rumtidsbeskrivningar. Tyngdlagen är både Newtonisk ”massor dras till massor” (energimassas fokus på massa) och Einsteinsk ”rumtids krökning” (rumtids fokus på rum) – båda beskrivningar är korrekta.
Jonatan Mustonen, Sweden
Posted on
08/05/2017
17/05/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Swedish important semi-book 2017
Can we
timetravel? We can proceed from era to era, just like dinosaurs preceded man and not vice versa – its a universal sequence on any planet.
Heaven/karma instinctual but collides with main picture.
Water, primordial soup, proteins, dns strand. Single cell reproducing multiplying. Then 1 of these cells thought “ill inject my own dna into some other cell”, hijack its reproductive system. Very beneficial. So first there were 3 rules: life n death, number of offspring matters and mutation in each generationshift, then with viruses came the 4th rule “power” – hijacking others’ reproductive system. Then theres an arms race between viruses and … “Our kind of” organism, so to mutate our immune system faster two genders arose. Then fights between males led to the dinosaurs. Then brains bonded into groups to fight individualists. Then capitalist power struggles within the group made the brain grow larger, we’re good at planning and remembering things. Then we get to kingdoms. From the water puddle to the 21 st century. Those who proceed to the next era will live in a world where holy book-group bonds are weak and a universal courses group bond is the strongest, thus national wars or civilizational wars where identity is based on other than this science will be impossible. The planet has two future ways to go 60 years from now and one is better but needs some investment of time until everybody knows this course.
Theres a universal course/book thats on every advanced enough planet throughout the universe and at the regeneration of every universe. If you consider the entire corpus of human knowledge, youd find 3 rational starting points: certain truth, nothingness and that reality is one. Just like dinosaurs predate humans the first chapter with the 3 starting points predate the connecting of “i think n i exist, distinction” and “reality is one, antidistinction. Which leads to that there is more to reality than can be contemplated meaning that its infinite. Thats chaper 2: like multiplication and division are much higher levels of mathematics than adding and subtracting, chaper 2 is higher than the starting points in chapter 1.
———
If you want to be altruistic/selfless you can think about the millions of lives lost or living as refugees due to religious wars and group-loyalties based on ideology/religion. What if group-loyalty could be, for everyone, based on a single universal ideology? Then friendship ties, shared histories, well-mixing personalities and the like would form groups that don´t have a religious mission/an ideological drive. When all ideologies are erased – and religions too – then simple biological mechanisms like common goals, shared interests and family ties bind us together – and those kind of conglomerations are more likely to disintegrate than if there is a holy book or any ideological book as the binding principle between people. If ISIS would be educated then it would disintegrate and many civil wars break out among different families in Iraq/Syria – but there would not be this major cleft between western&modern and holy&dogmatic.
If you want to be selfish like Ayn Rand: the upcoming world order / economy will be a meritocracy based on who advances or knows the most science. The ancient Chinese had a government where even the lowest peasant, if he passed a test in Confuscious´ teachings, could elevate himself higher in the society. Hierarchy is based on what is objectively to be admired; hierarchy is based on what infinitely many extraterrestrials in consensus have agreed upon be the criteria for how a human´s thoughts should be wired; hierarchy is based on the universe´s disposition to reward those with the most accurate world-view or whom advance the pre-existing world-view and spread it to others – the universe wants us choose to elevate in the hierarchy those whom appriciate the universe most fully, wholistically and most accurately. The old power-system based on money is upheld by banks and is based on present day humans´ ties to the past. There will be an overlap between the old bank-based system for establishing VIP-status and the new economy which is a meritocracy based on science. If we want to be like planets ahead of us in the evolution of history, we ought to adapt the meritocracy-economy. After a few generations inherited money seems less legitimate than knowing or advancing science and by doing so wiring one´s cortex (flexible thinking part of the brain) as universally as possible (as much like the consensus among extraterrestrials is as possible).
There are three universal starting points for the universal course which will wire your brain universally. What I mean by “universal” is that:
A) it is based on science meaning that it is retrievable from anywhere at any time; it is available universally unlike some time-specific language-specific location-specific holy-book-revalation.
B) universal means that it is how aliens/extraterrestrials sooner or later wire their brains. Sure: they can choose to live in a multi-worldviewical world but sooner or later the truth will conquer meaning that all various ideas among every tribe or nation will congregate (like a lens focuses many beams of light into one focal point) into a single set of ideas and prioritarizations – a single world-view will emerge from the many. It is the identical world-view that all civilizing planets will congregate to/toward because science is universal. This congregating is as much of a universal step in evolution as that a planet with water will eventually have bacteria. Eventually everyone will know the course and the idea of this book. “What do you believe?” will no longer be a question because everyone has wired their cortex´s ideas based on universal ideas/science.
——–
Am I a muslim?
I have my size-time-diagram into which everything fits and this diagram being infinite gives an existential theory because:
– sizes justify (are the cause of) one another, so there´s infinite justification.
– time is infinite and our universe is observed to become nothingness in the future, and nothingness would be absurd if not for the fact that in the smallest spaces energymass is summoned because E=mc2 is a stable, constant law of nature.
– there can only be separate distinct entities if distinction is counter-balanced and happens in non-distinction (a singular Reality). This point is much like the previous point of that only in nothingness can somethingness be summoned.
God, then, if we are to look for a meaning for the word, cannot be:
– a specific object, size nor time within something infinitely larger
– cannot, by definition, be apart from and “beyond” [that of which all is part] (Reality). Reality being an infinite size- and time-range of energymasspacetime is enough of an existential theory to explain us being here, the Big Bang, and the rest of the questions. God would, if claimed to be “beyond” the existential theory, be an unnecessary unproven assumption but more to the point: God would be “unreal” if Reality is defined as we define it here. Such “beyond Reality”-gods are unreal. What´s more is that the phrase “Allah akbar” (God is the biggest/greatest) wouldn´t be true if Reality/[that of which all is part] is God plus Reality – if [that of which all is part] has two major components, God and an energymasspacetime sizerange etc (the existential theory), then the sum of those two components is greater than God.
God, thus, obviously means Reallity by the definition of God being the greatest. God is then infinite. It makes sense to see people in awe over how much they can study, when they know there´s infinitely many fields of science which we do not have access to but which are logical and necessities for Reality to hold together. There being nothing absurd in an infinite size-range that resembles our known size-range (from quantum physics to the visible universe) is awesome and the highest you could possibly worship. This again proves that God is just a synonym for Reality/the existential theory.
Having studied all fields of science i.e. all sizes is the known sizerange, seeing how they all make up (justify) eachother (that it´s just zooming in and zooming out), the wisdom that the sizerange is infinite (that there are infinitely many sizes making up one another) from the distinction (I think & I am logical path) and anti-distinction (that Reality is one) -thing, is the reason why we exist and God is not some size (sizes are not minds, except through evolution). Having studied all known sizes and knowing that the sizerange is infinite: it is an explanation to why we´re here (akin to the Adam and Eve story or “God created earth in 6 days” story) but it is not a revalation-giving thing – the Quran wasn´t written by God because God is not the kind of thing that writes/dictates stories. God being an infinite sizerange as thus our Creator is true, but the true way to get knowledge, rituals/pictoral representations and even guidance is through my work, not the work of the holy book-writers. The holy book writers might have said something true about God (just like I do in my work) – but that is true of science textbooks moreso – and they all said false things such as that God talks/gives revalations/authors holy books.
I can see the bronze-age marketing-team´s standpoint: people are more prone to follow dictates if they´re said to come from something/someone “higher than human” i.e. a God or a ghost/spirit. Being invisible in as nonsense-a-way as some rituals are, is great for marketing. Everyone knows how humans thing – they´re themselves human; we are only partly rational (a computer is rational) in what we think – all our animal lusts bias or interrupt the thoughts that are as logical as they get, but they´re always going to be based against an evolutionary background just like the pitfall that my abstract diagram-including infinity-mentioning world-view is more like algebra than “what a world-view (context in which we are) should be thinking about that we lived for millions of years on the savannah, only needing to know (in one´s world-view) where the water-source is or whom stands under whom in the social hierarchy. We´ve mapped geographies, the use-based properties of objects/tools and personalities (and still do) for a gazillion years – only with the advent of science SOME of us achieved higher i.e. used their evolved meager toolkit with all its biases to scetch out something like the theory of evolution in the 1800s. Looking at the evolution of [what we use our memory for]/how we map our surroundings/our world-view, before we mapped social relationships we mapped geographies. Before we mapped the functions of inventions (tools) our map only contained caveman tools (sharp stones and spears). The next step is to map one´s context as an infinite size-time-diagram (where size and time are really the same, but abstract thinking allows us to separate them into two distinct axises) or energymasspacetime (with its´ many laws of nature found in every school textbook in the world) and the distinction-antidistinction-
thing which feels so awkward/abstract that one wonders why one needs it as pillar 3 of the existential theory: the answer is: it wasn´t invented (the words “I see a distinct object” or “why is there distinction?” weren´t said in the same breath as “Reality is one” or “energymass and spacetime unite”) until I did it in the 21st century). It might seem trivial to mention that separate entities exist in a singular Reality – it´s so obvious (that´s why no-one cared to make a big fuzz out of inventing it) but it makes the existential theory have three pillars (all of which can seem obvious) and not 4 – there´s nothing more to add to the existential theory once you´ve added the obvious “separation in antidistinction”-statement. I want to know how aliens (the infinitely many of them, steered by science toward an incommon path) think because its synonymous to finding a TRUE “key to history” (Marx thought the key was equality, Hitler thought the key was racial superiority and a brutally competative relationship between races, Capitalism thinks it´s freedom (less government), some might think they “key to history” is to fund technological development). “How aliens think” is a shorthand way of saying “the key to history” or “what will happen next/eventually and in hindsight seen as akin to the era of ancient grecoroman culture, the Industrial Revolution or the Digital revolution)”. It´s what we´re steered towards; it´s the closest thing we get to divine guidance. It´s simply universal (drawn on science and practiced by infinitely many aliens) guidance/suggestions/
recommendations that we, as a species, can choose to promogate and thus “follow” or if we´ll stick to multiculturalism´s many -ism´s like political quran-based islamism or christian-based “the holy book gave me this”-morality and codes of conduct. Some -ism´s are dangerous (like quran-based politics and law) while some -ism´s like christianity give too much credit to the -ism for simple human decency (in an age of extreme wealth globally). When my tummy is full I´m a decent person – I try to make money but I´m not desparate after extreme wealth because I know that my caveman-brain´s “need” for power (through status-symbols and freedom of space my environment to maximize the effectiveness of my hobby (writing)) won´t get satisfied no matter what external extravaganzas trigger my eyeballs, nor can people (socializing) make me much more satisfied than I am right now because all that is interesting and that there is to people is their brain – and after a few weeks together there´ll be nothing I know nor any mental tool that I use that won´t, despite copyright, be in the hands of my friend: we won´t talk science (me teaching him/her) after all the science has been taught. I don´t care to teach trivia so when I say “I teach SCIENCE” I mean a finite thing: the existential theory plus something from each level of the known sizerange. Getting a P.hD from specializing on finding the structure of a rare protein only found in the feet of Amazonian forrest-mice is to put your eyes too close to the diagram; P.hDs for specializing/having a very narrow topic for one´s mind to engage in are for people who don´t see the forest for the trees and care to rather look at one leaf of one tree instead of thinking about and seeing the forest as a whole. I´m a forest person – a leaf 10 cm from my eyes just bugs me. That´s why there is a finite repertoire to what I call “science” – it takes a few days for me (my accomplishment/my work) to be fully understood and if repeated repetative. One only needs to know why/where one exists (the existential theory) once – one can´t forget it because we are made to remember the very context in which we live (here an evolutionary bias helps us: when someone explains “what the world is” we remember it because “what the world was” in caveman days was the most useful thing the brain could do – in fact we evolved such large brains because bigger brains remember better (can moreso map social relationships, successfull or unsuccesfull learning-experiences). We want to climb upwards in the hierarchy, find a mate, etc but all these wants and needs would be useless (they´d having nothing to work on) if it weren´t for the map (of social relationships etc) that our brain is capable of remembering. We are inclined to remember existential theories because such knowledge about our place in the context was as useful as mapping whom is married to whom. This bias, by the way, is something holy book writers used to get people interested in their book. “God created earth in 6 days (not 5)” is memorable because of our bias toward wanting to know about “creation of the world” – so the number “6 days” is remembered too because it adds to the map that we then work on to seek power and other evolutionary benefits. It´s hard to make plans that have one reach evolutionary benefits if one does not know one´s environment/the external world. “6 days for creating this place/world” adds to one´s map of the environment/place/external world. We have a bias for remembering it. Too bad the bronze-age holy books used this marketing trick (“hey, let´s say something about their world (like the creation of it) because that would be something they remember!”) to give pseudo- existential theories. The holy books made sales because not only do people want information about their context, people also want God to talk and interfere with day-to-day personal activites. Once you have a pseudo-explanation for how/why the world was created, you´re free to add to that pseudo-explanation that “the creator talks”. It´s impossible to add such a talking thing to my existential theory – not only is it unnecessary (my theory works stand-alone) but it also contradicts basically every concept of my existential theory. The very definitions of energymasspacetime (meaning that God had nothingness as the canvas to paint on – a nothingness that needs energymass and summons it because of the laws of nature inherent in that nothingness – and chose to paint a beginning with as-dense-as-can-be (just like E=mc2 would´ve created it because E=mc2 is true in the smallest spaces). Where was God when this happened? Couldn´t have been energymass because energymass is only summoned once the universe becomes pure nothingness. If God is not energymass and energymass is existence – then God doesn´t exist / God is nothing. What doesn´t exist or is nothing doesn´t give revalations to men, doesn´t care whom you sleep with, etc. Is God or God´s heaven a location in our size of infinite spacetime? In that case God is simply a far-away alien (which warrants questions about its evolution) but again – it doesn´t talk to us because of the distance and we wouldn´t be too impressed even if an evolved God did talk to us (we are quite like it – our science is the same, our world-view is the same). God is not a location in a size but is God a size? The sizerange is infinite (as proven by distinction not being able to see antidistinction) and that´d mean that there´s a creator to God (and that thing too has a creator, ad infinitum) IN THE SAME WAY as humans built cities or atoms make molecules. Again, if God is a size it warrant´s the question: is God every location of that size or is God, like humans, in a location of that size? Whatever be the case, God still couldn´t communicate with us. Since God fits neither in the context of energymasspacetime nor the context of the sizerange, a God-theory absolutely contradicts the true theory. What is said about God – that God is the greatest – makes only one “location”/notion in the existential theory correspond to a non-talking uncaring God: the theory itself (and more precisely Reality/[that of which all is part]) is the greatest. It certainly doesn´t hear/talk nor give revalations because it comes as an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime. When you tell this science, you can get to the point where you define Reality as “that of which all is part” and the greatest – you can even get to antidistinction/the unrepresentability of Reality (fully, because we do represent some things) and people might still hope that a talking God can exist. But as soon as you mention the less abstract (the more abstract was that [that of which all is part cannot be observed]), the God-theory either surrenders or is in conflict with a/the existential theory which certainly is true (anyone can verify how the components of the theory fit together, make sense and explain everything). God as a synonym for Reality is boring – why do we even have two words if we mean the same (scientific sizerange) thing.
If you assume that God is a synonym for Reality (which comes as an infinite sizescale, which in turn predicts a DNA-strand somewhere and voila: everything is explained), then I believe in your God. It doesn´t appriciate my appriciation of it though, nor do rituals, following rules (made by men) etc please it. If I am to “show my appriciation to it” I do it by writing as I do right now – that´s my worship of it: but I´m under no illusion that this writing would please God by being logical (eventhough Reality itself is logical too – so we have something incommon) – me writing can be called worship but the only appriciating recipients of my writing are me and readers of my text. Whatever I write about Reality/God doesn´t please God (because God is not a thing that listens, likes worship by others and other human needs) – whatever worshippers do, I hope they do it for themselves and for other humans because no-one else is able to care or comprehend the worship. I would do the muslim prayer if I felt that that kind of discipline would benefit me (and a few times I did get a good feeling from going to the mosque and being among worshippers). It´s so easy to adapt to the customs of one´s peers (and especially one´s superiors, if one believes that there are those) that my attitude toward worship/ritual is “when in Rome, do like the romans (if you or others gain something out of it)”. The world is complex – I could have the same attitude toward the beliefs of islam: that I´ll just say that something is through eventhough it obviously isn´t because it contradicts, say, a talking holy book-writing God. Could I make myself believe that something talkative is God? The belief disintegrates and I get the foul feeling of that I´ve used my valuable memory to note down a lie everytime I would think just one step/association further from the belief itself. I can believe (in anything) but analyzing it even the smallest amount will make me disbelieve it. But when you´re in the mood of not analyzing – like when one is having a panic attack on one´s death-bed – I´ll be (extremely) simplistic and do what some people seem to always do: “believe (in something that breaks down when analyzed)”. What confuses me is that some people believe all the time – they seem perfectly sane but they believe in a talking, scripture-giving God (that doesn´t fit anywhere in the existential theory). Do they need comfort (from untruth) all the time? It seems like they´re trying to argue their position, though. A perplexing phenomenon at first glance but when you consider that they´re uneducated about my existential theory, any theory will do (even a talking God-theory). I am not hateful of it when I see it in other people – I see it as humorous/ridicilous – but when it binds people together (to form what in essence is an army) and there´s many of them (10 000 religions/”armies”) the world´s got a problem. Binding people together through their shared scripture and their belief that something impossible is true is bad because groups tend to be more violent than individualists – especially if their holy text 1) seems to bind billions of people to their army (morale-strength amplification in a group is the root of violence), and 2) preaches violence/disrespect (many holy books are xenophobic and eager to create an “us vs. them”-social dynamic). If the holy book is taken seriously (if it can´t be thrown in the trash) then we have bronze-age xenophobia (based on who likes the book and who doesn´t) creeping into the modern day, and we also have artificial bonding/loyalty – we basically get groups who are hostile (or more disrespectful) toward anyone who doesn´t see the point (“there´s a talking God”) they´re promoting. It´s such an easily fixable problem: if you read my work you simply cannot believe in a talking God – my professional role is that you can give me ANY individual and I can “convert” him/her into not believing in a talking God. Whether this person will follow his or her group´s rituals or codes of conduct, though, is up to them – it´s sheer peer pressure.
The “us vs. them” “we are a big group” (and especially) “we should convert the whole world so that they use their precious memory for knowing nonsense like we do” are such great reasons for violence – and of course it´s fixable because what these people lack is education: only where there is no theory, can a pseudo-theory take root. Only where there is no argument/debate/science can “God talks” seem like legitimate truth. This means that much of the world´s violence is due to a lack of education (about the big questions i.e. what I talk about). Sure: some religions can be interpreted to say “kill the infidels” or some other explicit declaration of war – but it´s hard for a religion to survive if it constantly preaces fighting (it must have more clever tactics than that – but it does tend to seek world-dominion). I´m not so worried that someone reads the Quran and thinks “I´ll help the [unbelieves in the Quran´s talking God] to get to hell faster, because the Quran says that that´s where they belong”. I am worried about that the Quran (or any holy book) is the glue that binds people together. Religion is the last glue before we enter an era where obviously arbitrary things like nationalism or language makes strangers feel more familiar with eachother. Nation and language aren´t taken that seriously – nor should religion be, but it is. This binding-effect that holy books have is what makes ISIS / the taliban etc so hard to defeat – they think, not only that they have an all-seeing revalation-giving God on their side, but they also have the exact same copy of a book that a billion people have. They feel strong (with their, seemingly to them, superior numbers). Obviously ISIS underestimated the ability of the Quran to draw in arab nations into the fight over Iraq & Syria – the modern world simply leaned on the fact that ISIS are not muslims because they interpret the bronze-age ramble wrong. But ISIS / the taliban is still a factor – the quran binds too many people together in certain areas of the world – violence is caused, due to the binding-effect, the “moral superiority”-effect, the “power in numbers and billions of people read the Quran”-effect etc (all these effects are there even if you skip the parts about the talking God who word for word said the Quran) make men as prone to violence as anything can make them: they´re a group with an “us vs. them” dogma & feeling and they feel like they have power in numbers. Add to that the frustration over having to finance an own home before one can ejaculate. Those circumstances can make the group take up arms and “send the infidels where they belong”. Following the commandments frustrates, the whole notion of “let´s all prioritize this text highest (our favorite book) so that we´re bound together” and that the text itself can be interpreted as violent all are a breeding-ground for trouble – and when you´re in the trouble that the text creates, you are not in the state of mind to do the internal debate necessary to disprove a talking God and thus make your whole way of life become something that you either do as meaningless fun or don´t do because no-one cares. But just as some people want to become professional soccer players and some atheists do zen-meditation, humans (by personal preference) want hobbies, to take up a discipline, to do something that adds, say, pride to their life. I don´t personally care about soccer and I don´t feel pride from doing any ritual, but I can definitely see that others take the muslim prayers like an athlete takes their sport. It´s possible to find out the objective truth about whether these prayers “please God or not” (by, like I´ve done in this text, disproving all kinds of false Gods and making the real God more mundane and not a talker). Rituals don´t please Reality/”the energymasspacetime sizerange” because it is not a thing that gets pleased – it´s like trying to please a rock. You do the prayers because you enjoy the pride/hobby for its own sake – like someone doing sports likes his/her sport. Pleasing a rock/God to get to a “heaven” (which too doesn´t fit into the true existential theory) is stupid unless it´s akin to a hobby/sport where you do it for doing it´s sake. Same thing with the “heaven hates ham”-thing – when you know enough science (enough = what I´ve written so far in this text) you´ll realize that the whole ham-prohibition is man-made (from the bronze age) and linked to some pre-scientific nonsense from-the-horse´s-mouth-
statement (can´t say rationale because it´s dogma). If you (and secondarily your peers) are dedicated to nonsense (whether it be sports, stamp-collecting, memorizing capitals or not eating pork), then do it if it does something good like prove to yourself (and others) that you have a strong discipline (even though your effort is misdirected toward nonsense). I can invent a ritual and do it every day, and maybe I´d feel pride over that I can keep to a schedule of nonsense, but I would never claim the theory that there is a talking God, and by extention I wouldn´t say that that ficticious talker prohibited ham. The mundane action must be differentiated from the logical argument. Ham-prohibitions and talking Gods are artifacts that belong in the past – modern white A4-paper is too beautiful for someone to write something as erroneous as “there is a talking God” on it. But as I´m writing this, people are dying because religion binds them together (and frustrates them, and boosts their war-morale in many ways). My work can cause a civil war within ISIS – a civil rift so permiating that only family ties, friendships and common goals (to get money, not to spread islam) can keep people together in groups. Once my existential theory is known there will still be crime and instability in Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan, but the evil deeds will only be committed by groups of 2-3 people – not 20 000 of them. The binding effect of the Quran can most clearly be seen in that internet-propaganda made Quran-readers from the USA and Europe go fight in Syria – everyone wants a group and it´s totally human to assume that knowing the same book will be enough for a bond to be as strong as one wants it to be.
Right now “my work” is 9 proper texts and a few videos. They all talk about the same thing (which can be formulated as: I´ll say as much as I can about things I´ve never heard anyone else say (and I´ve seen the best professors in the world teaching truths)). To cause a rift in the taliban/ISIS and stop the war by making group-bonding (around a holy book) problematic/impossible, my whole “work” doesn´t need to be dropped as propaganda books on top of ISIS and the taliban. It´s enough that the news headlines say that “a correct all-explaining existential theory has been found – religions in crysis” or that enough people know my theory so that a multitude of youtube videos are made where, in a sentence or two, the presenter goes off-topic and mentions why we exist / something from my theory. Having understood it once makes it impossible to forget – having understood it once makes group-bonding over religion (which fuels ISIS/the taliban/etc) impossible. If the world could just take 20 minutes of its´ time to spend on explaining/teaching/arguing my work/theory, then the war on terror would be over – otherwise it will persist as long as people have no actual, logical theory about their existence and thus believe in bronze-age marketing tricks.
——-
The theory of evolution begins with the first reproducing shape. It was a shape that assembled surrounding mass into a similar shape. The existential theory predicts the existence of infinitely many such shapes. What inevitable becomes true when you have reproduction is that some die and some survive (life and death), that the number of offspring that shape make matters and that there is mutations over time. This is true about the shape´s offspring: some will die and some will survive, the number of offspring they make matters and the offspring can be different from the original shape. These three rules / laws of nature were inactive before the first reproduction occurred. The next main event was that one of these shapes found that if it injected its DNA into other shapes´ reproductive mechanism, it exploited principle number two: that the number of offspring matters. It was the first virus: it hijacked others´ reproduction. The rule / law of nature that came into play with this event was that “power” matters: hijacking others´ reproductive mechanism gives evolutionary benefits. Now we´ve listed the four main rules that govern evolutionary theory: first came the three first, and then came the forth: power. The next main event – to guard against viruses taking over all life / reproductive mechanisms – was that an immune system evolved to protect against virus´ hijack attempts. This required multicellularism. Just like immune systems prompt/require multicellularism, immune systems prompt/require multigenderedism: to win in the arms race against quickly mutating viruses two genders arose to amplify the mutations to the immune system. Mixing genes from two genders creates a more mutated immune system, which can keep ahead in the arms race against quickly-mutating viruses “trying” to mutate to bypass any immune system. The next main event is that one of these multicellular organisms – a fish or worm – of the male gender mutated to be agressive and defeat other males in battle. He would´ve gotten access to many more females than his non-agressive counter-parts. This too can be called “power” because the agressive male hijacks other male´s access to females by killing the males. This prompts the dinosaurs because larger muscle mass and shaper weaponry is better at killing off competitors. Amongst the dinosaurs there was the mother-offspring bond, placed there by evolution for the evolutionary benefits a mother gets from seeing an offspring survive to adulthood. This bond mutated to involve flock-members because a group working together out-competes any individualists when fighting over anything. The next main event was that someone mapped the flock, in his brain, as a hierarchy (up-down-axis) with the longing to dominate peers.
Posted on
07/05/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
Dude, evolution has me try to maximize evolutionary benefits using my plans; im always thinking at full speed and pain drives that thinking. And i know for certain that all this pain is meaningless. Its a suicide recipe but what prevents me from suicide is the natural strength that stems from being the pinnacle of beasts who all have survived for generations.
Posted on
05/05/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
Audios
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/Voice-005.m4a
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/Voice-006.m4a
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/Voice-008.m4a
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/Voice-009.m4a
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/Voice-010.m4a
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/Voice-003.m4a
Posted on
05/05/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Audios
My religion is to bitchslap Reality and then laugh about the attempt to bitchslap it.
Bön (=skratt) i storlek-tid. Stressen går ut = det är det helande miraklet. Den heliga skriften är ett skämt.
Jag gör en beskrivning av verkligheten, skrattar åt meningslösheten/grymheten/depressionen i den. T.ex. “storlek-tid”.
Vapnet i det heliga kriget är humor.
Posted on
04/05/2017
04/05/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
New book 2017
Chapter 1:
What problem does this solve?
This solves a problem that becomes most visible 60 years from now when sea-levels rise, the economy goes into permanent decline and oil ends. That´s when humans start to fight (and belong in world-view-based groups to do so). While the economy is still rising the clashes are few and far between – Afghanistan, Syria, ISIS´ world-wide terror attacks (mainly muslim world-views clashing with tolerant world-views). When the economy starts declining there´ll naturally be more friction between groups, and groups are made up of world-views (people identify as in a group based on world-view).
Advancing the scientific world-view to the level where it explains our origin and thus invades religious intellectual turf, solves the problem of world-views colliding as war.
Chapter 2:
Certain truth – I think & I am
You have a composite certain truth consisting of two certain truths: you can claim as certain that you think (because if you were being fooled: being fooled is thinking) and that you exist (because being fooled requires the one who is fooled to be there). I think and I exist is one statement but two truths. You can certainly claim to have “distinction” because you´re dealing with multiple separate distinct entities (such as “I” and “thought”). One could put it, while seeing the certain truths “I think” and “I exist”, that the space between the two notions (thinker and thought) is the hallmark of distinction. The distance separating thinker from thought we can recognize as necessary for “distinction” to be concluded as a certain truth arising, in a next logical step, from the original primary certain truth.
Everyone agrees they they themselves exist, because if one would get fooled in everyone one can be fooled in then one would exist there anyway and be fooled. So one knows that one exists. Then one also knows that one thinks because “to get fooled” is a thought-process. Thus we have two things: I think and I exist. And the distinction between them: and on the flipside of the paper we have the opposite of that: anti-distinction, and this can also be called “that of which all is part”/Reality. And since we are in the distinction-side of the paper when we see something; when we see something there is distinction between us and that thing. Thus we cannot represent or see that which is on the other side of the paper i.e. that of which all is part / Reality. Nothing can represent – because it is distinct – Reality. So whatever which is distinct cannot… whatever that is observed or represented is distinct and therefore is not… therefore does not represent Reality / “that of which all is part”. So we have distinction and anti-distinction as opposing poles.
You have a certain truth which everyone in the whole world agrees upon. You think and you exist since if you were being fooled by an almighty demon you´d still both think and exist. Then there are two things i.e. distinction. All is part of a single reality which is anti-distinction, there are no separate parts: reality is one. If we put distinction on the left side of the paper and anti-distinction on the right side then (we) distinction cannot see that of which all is part because “to see” is “to represent” and then one uses something to refer to reality. There is nothing outside reality which can refer to reality but instead reality is defined as “that of which all is part” and then there is nothing that can refer to all of reality. The opposition between the two sides of the paper (distinction & anti-distinction) makes reality as “that of which all is part”-anti-distinction non-representable because representation always involves distinction. What we see, for example, is just parts of reality. The hypotheses can be infinitely much so there is infinitely much to reality. Sizes and times, that is. In the existential theory (“why we exist”) there, thus, is an infinite size-range with time, energymass in spacetime (everything and nothing intertwined like in the E=mc2 equation – energy equals mass times, well – spacetime; multiplication is what unites energymass with spacetime). Then we have distinction and anti-distinction: separate things but all is part of a single reality. The existential theory with its three pillars, that is an infinite sizerange, energymasspacetime and distinction-anti-distinction-opposition, predicts that there should be a tiny piece of DNA which copies itself.
Then there´s another kind of revelation that got respect. Descartes who lived in the 1600s got respect, fame and was invited to live with the Queen of Sweden because he had gotten an idea which certainly told us something true. Revelations can either be con men´s statements like they were from ape-man and forward, or they can actually claim something which is verifyably true. Descartes, propably having his mind overcrowded by the masses of revelations that had accumulated to his time, asked: “what would be true if all my statements were false?”. What would remain if I tossed all my knowledge and ideas into the trash? Are we stuck with countless unverifyable statements, some contradicting eachother, not knowing which ones are true and which ones are not? Obviously not since statements about architecture are obviously true since they build houses, while contradictory statements do not. So Descartes dared to throw all his knowledge in the trash to see what remained. He found certain truth: that he exists – because even if he was wrong or was being fooled in everything he thought to be true, there´d still be a “he” there. He certainly exists no matter what. Same thing goes for thoughts: being wrong or being fooled is a thinking-process so even if he was wrong or was being fooled in everything he thought, there´d still be thought.
Socrates: So he figured out that he thinks and he exists.
God: These are not one statement – they are two.
Socrates: What does that mean?
God: I´ll tell you later – just agree with me that there is distinction between thinker and thought – that the statements are two. It´s building on certain truth, and it´s possible to build a whole… whatever it is that “saves the world” from the coming economic decline by having everyone build on certain truth until the God-debate is settled. Remembering “distinction” (between thinker and thought) will prevent the horror-scenario of large-scale future wars between people group-bound by religions, and instead – since everyone built a whole world-view on certain truth – have a more stable decline in the future. “Distinction” i.e. remembering that there are two certain truths (thinker and thought) is a step on the way toward a plan that will save humanity from destroying itself as much as it would if we didn´t build our world-views on certain truth.
Plato: So after an era of “revelation”-revelations invented by anyone for whatever purpose, coming from Darwin´s ape-man´s revelations, Descartes, in the 1600s, invented a revelation – certain truth: I think and I exist – which got him invited to the Queen of Sweden for the rest of his life. People have always liked revelations and even verifyable truth-claims like Descartes´ get respect.
God: I have set it as true that each one of you humans can verify in your own mind´s eye that you do certainly exist and that there certainly is thought – and thus there is distinction.
Darwin: Distinction is an abstract word. That two objects are separate/different from one another is one of those notions and ape-man never made into language – there was never the evolutionary need to talk about “distinction”. Yes: one could say that one banana is different from another (and one wants the bigger one), but to have Distinction exist stand-alone as a distinct notion is abstract thinking and we are not evolved to do that. For millions of years the caveman word for “distinction” was only used in a sentance – not stand-alone as in “distinction certainly exists because thinker and thought are both certain truths”.
Chapter 3:
Distinction-antidistinction-opposition
The first proof for that the size-time-diagram is infinite is distinction´s (our) inability to see/represent anti-distinction.
Chapter 4:
Maximum size?
The second prooof for that the size-time-diagram is infinite is that if we imagine a partless anti-distinction then it has no distinction as in a “maximum” or “minimum” size, i.e. the size-range is infinite.
Chapter 5:
Infinite size-time-diagram
Chapter 6:
Existential theory´s 3 pillars
Chapter 7:
Prediction of DNA
Posted on
04/05/2017
04/05/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on New book 2017
Posted on
27/04/2017
Categories
Most important posts
Leave a comment
on
Om anledningen till att religiösa krig fortsätter är att Jonatan inte fått en riskkapitalist att köpa volvo, villa, vovve för att skriva bättre… …så måste något radikalt göras, tänkar Jonatan när han röker på.
Posted on
26/04/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
Everyone agrees on that reality is one. Because it´s one nothing can represent it, because the representer too should be part of reality. That means that there is a size-time-diagram which is infinite. And that´s why we exist. Everyone agrees on this eventhough we are distinct unique individuals. We have this world-view incommon, with extraterrestrials too.
Posted on
26/04/2017
27/04/2017
Categories
Most important posts
Leave a comment
on
Posts navigation
Page
1
Page
2
…
Page
13
Next page
Proudly powered by WordPress

Jonatan Mustonen – yonis1@gmail.com – A generalization of all existing science – the proof for that religion is unnecessary (like an appendix)
Skip to content
Jonatan Mustonen – yonis1@gmail.com
A generalization of all existing science – the proof for that religion is unnecessary (like an appendix)
Menu and widgets
Search for:
Recent Posts
Important Semi-Book 2017
Swedish important semi-book 2017
1112
1101
Audios
Recent Comments
Dagbok/diary 1 april 2017 – Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
on
Action thriller scifi book
Archives
May 2017
April 2017
March 2017
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
January 2016
Categories
Dagbok
Most important posts
The book + diagrams
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.org
Important Semi-Book 2017
The text begins with certain truth, goes on to explaining why something exists rather than nothing (the existential theory – why we exist), and then goes on to evolutionary theory which is predicted by the existential theory and explains everday occurances.
You know for certain that you think and that you exist because even if an almighty demon was fooling you in everything you can possibly be fooled in, the fooling itself is a thought-process and therefore you know that thought exists (you think), and for you to be fooled you have to exist and therefore you know “I exist”. Being fooled is thinking and a thinker is necessary for there to be someone to be fooled. So you know: no matter what, you think and you exist. Those are two things, right? They´re both part of the same brain and the thought-process can become the analytical toolkit/thinker, but still we recognize that there are distinct entities – there is distinction. This can also be called separation. What is distinction´s opposite, anti-distinction? It´s one reality; that of which all is part; it´s one and reality´s definition in the dictionary is that all is part of it. If we write distinction (thinker and thought) on the left side of the paper and anti-distinction (reality; that of which all is part; one) on the right side of the paper – can the left side see the right side? No, because of opposition between distinction and anti-distinction. Because of there always being an observer (a thinker) and thus distinction in every observation and thus anti-distinction can´t be represented/seen.
The brain evolved to deal with natural occurances – there was never an event in history where something invisible was to be contemplated and dealt with. Thus we seem to assume that the thought-process went wrong when we say that distinction/us can´t see anti-distinction/reality. But the thought-process didn´t go wrong: all that it means is that there is more to reality than can be represented. Regardless of how vaguely “represents” is defined, say a coffee cup – regardless of brains being involved – is assumed to try to represent that of which all is part, then anti-dinstinction – distinction – opposition (the opposition between distinction and it´s opposite) makes the representation incorrect. We can ask if there in an anti-distinct “thing” is a maximum size and thus distinction? No. Likewise, another proof for that the size-range is infinite is that we do sense something (our everyday world) and can make hypotheses ad infinitum, and yet nothing represents ALL OF reality. Reality i.e. size-time thus is infinite.
The infinite size-range is one pillar in the existential theory. Another pillar is energymass and spacetime being opposites but intertwined as in E=mc
2
(where c
2
refers to a speed which is space over time: spacetime). Multiplication joins energymass together with spacetime; nothing together with something/everything; existence together with non-existence. Why is there existence the shape of my body? Without going into the historical answer, one can explain it by saying that the body is something in (intertwined with) nothing, of a size in an infinite size-range (where the relationship between any two sizes (or objects of two sizes) is that they make sense of i.e. justify one another). Then there too, as a third pillar, is distinction-anti-distinction-opposition i.e. we live in a single (not plural) reality but we see distinct/separate entities such as thinker and thought.
Speaking of spacetime, spacetime is the logical starting point for the time-based existential theory. Nothingness (empty space) needs no prior justification nor reason to exist, because it doesn´t exist. In it, however, laws of nature are true i.e. it is not irrational / anti-logical, and among the many laws of nature there are those, including E=mc
2
, which mention energymass. Could energymass be “mentioned” without it existing? If yes, it would be absurd / anti-logical. Why would reality mention things that never exist? But since laws of nature are firm and because of our rule “what is mentioned must exist or must be summoned” we get, wherever (in the smallest spaces) that E=mc
2
is mentioned, existence and thus dense existence: a big bang. The fact that galaxies are speeding away acceleratingly from one another leads to nothingness in the future, and with the middleman “laws of nature” again energymass is summoned as dense as can be. No time-delay between nothingness – laws of nature – energymass but as soon as a bordered (by event horizons which are determined by the finite speed of light) region becomes nothingness, a big bang occurs and eventually becomes nothingness bordered by event horizons again. This is the time-wise description of why energymass (which exists intertwined with spacetime as in E=mc
2
) starts dense and becomes nothingness, and repeats.
All of the above is a rival theory to “God created earth in 6 days and rested on the 7th”. It is unintuitive because it deals with things we didn´t have to deal with in evolution: invisible energymasspacetime/reality/anti-distinction as a part of reasoning. It also has a multi-reason cause for our existence: a time-wise rationale involving the beginning and end of the big bang combined with a 3-pillar existential theory which justifies size and energymass. It is abstract/scientific but can´t be reduced into simpler terms. It´s the lowest common denominator that everyone can believe in (regardless of religion).
How vaguely has reality defined ”to represent”?
Infinitely vaguely – anything can represent anything.
Is the representation/representer reality or Allah?
No.
Can anything represent that of which all is part?
No.
Then the size-time-diagram is infinite i.e. nothing represents reality. How many is it? How many is Allah? 1.
Did it say…, or did it write a book?
This disproves Allah writing the Quran.
Again: how much of reality can be represented by, say, a painting? The whole of it?
No, the whole of reality cannot be represented. Just like Allah can´t be captured in a picture/word.
We can have hypotheses – how many hypotheses can we have?
If reality is sizes & times, energymass and spacetime then the square-shaped size-time-diagram with energymasspacetime in each coordinate is the universal way to represent all there is to represent.
Does it write books? No, it is not of such authorship-kind nature.
“God said to Muhammed word by word…” is thus a false or at most metaphorical statement.
“You have to do rituals in order not to go to hell, and in heaven you get 72 virgins” is by the same logic also a false claim.
There are three alternatives as the foundation for this logic – can you think of a 4
th
one?
1: Reality is a synonym for Allah
2: or Allah doesn´t exist
3: or there are 72 virgins (not an alternative because reality is not of the nature, because it is size-time-energymasspacetime, to write books).
In addition to the square size-time diagram with infinity symbols in each of it´s corners, and the evolutionary triangle which designates that life becomes more complex as time goes on (the triangle originates at the central size of the known size-range), there is the following brain diagram:
The existential theory with its three pillars, that is an infinite sizerange, energymasspacetime and distinction-anti-distinction-opposition, predicts that there should be a tiny piece of DNA which copies itself. When we have a tiny piece of DNA which copies itself we have three rules which come into play: that some survive and others die, that the number of copies you make has significance and that there is mutation (changes over generation-shifts). These three rules god said directly when the first copying/reproduction occurred. Then these single-celled organisms copy themselves for a while. Then there´s an organism which invents that it can inject its DNA into others´ cells – a virus. It then uses a new mechanism which takes advantage of the reproductive mechanism in other cells. This phenomenon of using others´ reproductive mechanism to make one´s own offspring we can call “power”. First came the three rules – survive, offspring and mutation – then some millions of years passed, then came the worth rule (hijack someone else´s reproductive system like viruses do). Rule number four came first later – it exploits rule number two (that the number of offspring has significance). Then we have viruses and “normal” organisms, and there´s an arms race between them: the viruses mutate and the only way for our organisms to win is for them to become multicellular and get an immune system. And how do you gain more mutations to the immune system? Well, you have two genders. So two-genderedness came from combating viruses – one mutates one´s immune system more. When we have two genders there is the difference that girls have one egg while the males have lots of sperm and then the guys start fighting each other to get the girls. Then it´s the largest one with the sharpest teeth that wins and this happens generation after generation and thus we get the dinosaurs. Among the dinosaurs there was the bond between mother and offspring and it evolves to involve group-members because if a group and an individualist end up in a conflict (fight over resources, females and such) the group wins because it fights as a group instead of as an individual. It was an evolutionary benefit to mutate the mother-offspring-bond to involve group-members. Then someone in the group (now we have some kind of wolves or dogs) mutated the up-down-axis which we have inside our heads: socioeconomic status, the hierarchy, power. He wanted to create a political system where he recruits some males to protect him and themselves from the slaves that were kept outside the flock – that is the same organization which one has in dogs, walruses and humans. First we evolved the mother-offspring-bond, then evolution created the up-down-axis where our body is someone on it and we want upwards in it. One can see it with cells – cells which in space are distributed so that you have up and down and you have a strong urge to gain upwardness. The anatomy of power is important for the whole world to understand to cultivate civilization over short-term greed.
You have a composite certain truth consisting of two certain truths: you can claim as certain that you think (because if you were being fooled: being fooled is thinking) and that you exist (because being fooled requires the one who is fooled to be there). I think and I exist is one statement but two truths. You can certainly claim to have “distinction” because you´re dealing with multiple separate distinct entities (such as “I” and “thought”). One could put it, while seeing the certain truths “I think” and “I exist”, that the space between the two notions (thinker and thought) is the hallmark of distinction. The distance separating thinker from thought we can recognize as necessary for “distinction” to be concluded as a certain truth arising, in a next logical step, from the original primary certain truth.
Are all distinct entities part of a single reality if “reality” is defined as “that of which all is part”? In other words: if we draw distinction on the left side of a paper and anti-distinction (distinction´s opposite: a singular reality – that of which all is part. Zooming out summarizing maximally) on the right side of the paper, then can distinction represent the right side of the paper i.e. anti-distinction? How could some distinct entities depict the very opposite of what representation/distinction is? Any depiction/representation of anti-distinction/reality has at least three entities: thinker, space between thinker and thought, and thought. Separation/distinction is inherent in representation, thus anti-distinction is unrepresentable.
How vaguely has the universe/God defined what a representation is i.e. when a representation occurs? Our brains use neurons to represent, but what if – instead of neurons (regardless of brains) – the universe wills that any random object can be said to, as neurons do, represent reality? The universe has defined “representation” infinitely vaguely i.e. disregarding brains, any random object spontaneously is the symbol standing for all of reality – because the universe defines “represents” infinitely vaguely. Despite the infinitely vague definition of what represents what, distinction-anti-distinction-opposition (the line separating the left side of the paper from the right side; the countering of distinction with anti-distinction) means that reality is not representable. If reality is anti-distinction then no distinction (representation is inherently distinction) can even, despite an infinitely vague definition of “represents”, capture reality. In representations we can count at least three things and what we´re trying to capture is one thing with nothing outside it. The fact that representations contain distinction makes capturing reality (all is one) impossible.
We can have infinitely many or infinitely large/substancefull representations/hypotheses – such as an infinite size-time-diagram – and though abstractly accurately pointing to reality, the universe´s rule that nothing represents reality despite infinitely vaguely allowed representations of infinitely much, makes reality unrepresentable. This can only mean one thing: reality – which we know as sizes and times (a size-time-diagram) – is infinite. There´s infinitely large and infinitely small with infinitely much past and infinitely much future. This square-shaped size-time-diagram i.e. our everyday experience of size-time has infinities all-over the place.
Energymass in spacetime: one in zero, existence in non-existence, something in nothing – as defined by E=mc
2
where c
2
stands for speed (distance over time i.e. spacetime/zero/non-existence) and E=m referring to energymass (existence, something, all).
Distinction-anti-distinction-opposition: we live in a singular reality but we see multiple objects.
An infinite size-range.
The above three ideas are an existential theory (a theory which explains the existence of a reproducing shape and thus the dawn of evolution and thus our existence). It is modern to utilize three equal ideas to explain one´s existence – all previous existential theories used either a single idea (monotheism) or a saga (multiple mundane (not very scientific/abstract) ideas) to explain existence.
The predictive quality that makes this existential theory a scientific theory is that it, basing it off an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime and distinction-anti-distinction-opposition, predicts that in an infinite size-range there ought to be a size where reproduction occurs. The existential theory predicts the first DNA, and from there we get to the evolutionary theory.
Another predictive quality is that the theory predicts a
dense
Big Bang. The a priori beginning of the universe logically is emptiness because emptiness doesn´t need any prior logical justification for its existence because it doesn´t exist. In emptiness laws of nature are true, such as the laws pointing toward and handleing energymass (like E=mc
2
), and thus the Big Bang begins infinitely dense because E=mc
2
is equally true simultaneously in the smallest of spaces. Tiny empty spaces having E=mc
2
be true in them simultaneously and directly as there was nothingness predicts a dense Big Bang. A region, contained within event horizons made out of energymasses speeding away at >c (due to dark energy causing accelerating cosmic expansion), is by definition “nothing” in which E=mc
2
being true in the tiniest spaces summons a dense big bang out of reach of the closest (v = >c) energymass. Nothingness (out of reach for the closest energymasses because they are speeding away at >c) is summoned in the central point with event horizons as the furthest away border, causing Big Bang (due to laws of nature summoning energymass in the empty center).
The theory of evolution begins with the first reproducing shape. It was a shape that assembled surrounding mass into a similar shape. The existential theory predicts the existence of infinitely many such shapes. What inevitable becomes true when you have reproduction is that some die and some survive (life and death), that the number of offspring that shape make matters and that there is mutations over time. This is true about the shape´s offspring: some will die and some will survive, the number of offspring they make matters and the offspring can be different from the original shape. These three rules / laws of nature were inactive before the first reproduction occurred. The next main event was that one of these shapes found that if it injected its DNA into other shapes´ reproductive mechanism, it exploited principle number two: that the number of offspring matters. It was the first virus: it hijacked others´ reproduction. The rule / law of nature that came into play with this event was that “power” matters: hijacking others´ reproductive mechanism gives evolutionary benefits. Now we´ve listed the four main rules that govern evolutionary theory: first came the three first, and then came the forth: power. The next main event – to guard against viruses taking over all life / reproductive mechanisms – was that an immune system evolved to protect against virus´ hijack attempts. This required multicellularism. Just like immune systems prompt/require multicellularism, immune systems prompt/require multigenderedism: to win in the arms race against quickly mutating viruses two genders arose to amplify the mutations to the immune system. Mixing genes from two genders creates a more mutated immune system, which can keep ahead in the arms race against quickly-mutating viruses “trying” to mutate to bypass any immune system. The next main event is that one of these multicellular organisms – a fish or worm – of the male gender mutated to be aggressive and defeat other males in battle. He would´ve gotten access to many more females than his non-aggressive counter-parts. This too can be called “power” because the aggressive male hijacks other male´s access to females by killing the males. This prompts the dinosaurs because larger muscle mass and shaper weaponry is better at killing off competitors. Amongst the dinosaurs there was the mother-offspring bond, placed there by evolution for the evolutionary benefits a mother gets from seeing an offspring survive to adulthood. This bond mutated to involve flock-members because a group working together out-competes any individualists when fighting over anything. The next main event was that someone mapped the flock, in his brain, as a hierarchy (up-down-axis) with the longing to be the top of the hierarchy. This capitalist striving for the top made brains grew larger – larger memory-banks, more accurate predictions and faster planning are all advantages coming from a larger cortex.
It is a major historical event that there finally is an atheistic argument that is shaped like a university course: it is an existential theory plus evolution which not only doesn´t need a personified god to function, but the pillars (infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime and distinction-anti-distinction-opposition) can´t have a personified god added to them as a 4th pillar without the theory sounding ridicilous. Not only does the theory not need a personified god but adding a god destroys the minimalistic rationally complete beauty of the theory. Gods uglify the theory. The dawn of the theory is a major historical event because never before has an entire course (beginning with certain truth, going through the existential theory and ending in evolution) been laid out in the intellectual debate of atheism, as an argument against a personified god.
The anatomy in the brain from hearing certain truth (I think & I am) – the beginning of the course – creates the same neuronal pathways / associations between ideas in every single person who knows certain truth. The logical step to “distinction” is noting, as a meta-analysis of the primary certain truth, that one has many ideas (I think AND I am) and that one can take logical pathways to the next step in the course (distinction exists). Then juxtaposing anti-distinction with distinction creates the unseeable – “defying reason” (because reason is, in simple people, only visual) – conclusion that we/distinction cannot see reality/anti-distinction. The distinction-anti-distinction-opposition is hard to grasp because it – like formal logic or math – uses words instead of pictures (the linguistic brainhalf rather than the visual one). We evolved to be like “if I see it I believe it” and that was a good heuristic (rule of thumb) because practical sequences of events can be verified as true or untrue by visualizing them. But in this philosophy: no – it has to be linguistic that we deny ourselves the concept “all of reality”, leading to the conclusion that there is more to reality than anything – however vaguely the universe has defined “represent” – can represent. This adds infinitely many sizes to our abstract size-range / size-time-diagram; it makes a square (with size on the y-axis and time on the x-axis) with infinity symbols in each corner, which in turn becomes a pillar in our personified-god-denying existential theory.
To come from certain truth, through mere logical steps (meta-analyses and juxtaposition of opposites), to an existential theory which predicts evolution is a major historical event in the history of atheism.
In a historical context the anatomy (neural connections between ideas and sequences of logic) created by this course is like a paradigm-shift into a new era of earth society – an era similar to that existent on infinitely many other planets who have come further than our midway-mark in a regular water-bearing planet´s history.
Evolution, by beginning with “a mass that can assemble surrounding mass into a similar shape” steps forth from the existential theory´s infinite size-range of energymasspacetime. Assuming DNA is the replication-molecule, we can step – skipping over how cell walls evolved etc – to the fact that viruses mutate to hijack others´ reproductive system. This – in this universal inter-planetary extraterrestrial culture – is formulated, in books of logic, as first three rules arising (life/death, number of offspring matters and “there is mutation in each generation-shift”) and then a forth rule arising (power, with viruses). This story – which in our course begins from a first reproducing shape and ends with finessing the anatomy of power in men – is visualizable like the caveman story-telling narratives we evolved to hear/see. We can proof-check its validity/possibility by following the narrative visually. The visual nature of evolution is in stark contrast to the purely linguistic/abstract nature of the existential theory.
Speaking of “abstract” descriptions i.e. descriptions that make it very clear to us that our understanding of the universe is a mere map (a reference) and not reality itself (mind you of Plato´s or Kant´s cave-metaphor and “the thing is not the thing itself” -philosophies)… The size-range of energymasspacetime, at the size of quantum physics has us describe photons etc using both the wave-description which focuses on lengths of space (this is the “spacetime description”) AND – in wave-particle duality – the energymass description that the energy of a photon is its color. Color (as perceived through the eyes), wave/spacetime-description and particle-energy/energymass-description all are valid descriptors of quantum particles. This ability of ours to describe any mass/phenomenon using both energymass- and spacetime-descriptions runs throughout the entire size-range. You can imagine two lines – one representing energymass and the other representing spacetime – running vertically through the pictures on the size-axis. Adding complexity to this, there is likewise two lines – gravity and electromagnetism – both running through the size-axis, gravity having it´s duality of energymass and spacetime descriptions and electromagnetism too having both, in every level of the size-range, energymass and spacetime descriptions. Gravity is both Newtonian “masses pulling toward masses” (energymass´ focus on mass) and Einsteinian “curvature of spacetime” (spacetime´s focus on space) – both descriptors are accurate.
Jonatan Mustonen
Posted on
08/05/2017
17/05/2017
Categories
Most important posts
Leave a comment
on Important Semi-Book 2017
Swedish important semi-book 2017
Texten börjar med säker sanning, sedan går den till att förklara varför någonting existerar istället för ingenting (den existentiella teorin – varför vi existerar), sedan går den till evolutionär teori vilket förutsägs av den existentiella teorin. Den evolutionära teorin förklarar vardagsfenomen.
Du vet med säkerhet att du tänker och att du existerar eftersom om du skulle bliva lurad av en allsmäktig demon som försöker lura dig i allt du kan bli lurad i, så är lurendrejeriet i sig en tanke-process och därför vet du att tankar existerar (du tänker). För att du ska bli lurad så måste du existera och därför vet du ”jag existerar”. Att bli lurad är en tankeprocess och tänkaren är nödvändig för att det ska finnas någon som blir lurad. Så du vet: oavsett vad så tänker du och existerar du. Åvanstående är två saker, eller hur? De är båda del av samma hjärna och samma tankeprocess kan bli ens analytiska verktygssats/tänkare, men vi erkänner ändå att det finns distinkta entiteter – att det finns distinktion. Detta kan också kallas separation. Vad är distinktions motsats, anti-distinktion? Det är en verklighet; det som allt är del av; den är en och dess definition i ordboken är att allt är del av den. Om vi skriver distinktion (tänkare och tanke) på vänster sida av ett papper och anti-distinktion (verkligheten; det som allt är del av; en) på höger sida av pappret – kan den vänstra sidan se den högra sidan? Nej, för att oppositionen mellan distinktion och anti-distinktion. Det finns alltid en observerare (tänkaren) och därmed distinktion i varje observation och därmed kan anti-distinktion ej representeras/ses.
Hjärnan evolverade för att hantera naturliga fenomen – det fanns aldrig ett scenario i historien då någonting osynligt behövde hanteras och betänkas. Därför antar vi att tanke-processen blev fel när vi säger att distinktion/vi inte kan se anti-distinktion/verkligheten. Men tankeprocessen gick inte fel: allt det betyder är att det finns mer till verkligheten än kan representeras. Oavsett hur vagt ”representeras” är definierat, låt oss säga att en kaffekopp – oavsett om hjärnor är involverade eller inte – antas försöka representera det som allt är del av, då gör anti-distinktions-distinktions-oppositionen (motsättningen mellan distinktion och dess motsats) att representationen är inkorrekt. Vi kan fråga om en anti-distinkt ”sak” har en maximumstorlek och därmed distinktion? Nej. På samma not är ett annat bevis för att storleksskalan är oändlig är att vi ser någonting (vår vardagsvärld) samt kan göra hypoteser ad infinitum, och ändå representerar ingenting ALL verklighet. Verkligheten dvs storlek-tid är därför oändligt.
En oändlig storleksskala är en av pelarna i den existentiella teorin. En annan pelare är att energimassa och rumtid är motsatser (opposition) men sammanflätade såsom i E=mc
2
(där c
2
hänvisar till en hastighet dvs rum över tid: rumtid). Multiplikationen sammanför energimassa tillsammans med rumtid; ingenting tillsammans med någonting/allting; existens tillsammans med icke-existens. Varför finns det existens i form av min kropp? Utan att gå in i det historiska svaret så kan man förklara det genom att säga att kroppen är någonting i (sammanflätat med) ingenting, av en storlek i en oändlig storleks-skala (där relationen mellan vilka två storlekar som helst (eller objekt av två storlekar) är att de är förklaringen till varandra dvs rättfärdigar varandra. Sedan finns det också, som tredje pelare, distinktions-anti-distinktions-opposition dvs vi lever i en singular (ej plural) verklighet men ser distinkta/separata entiteter såsom tänkare och tanke.
På tal om rumtid, rumtid är den logiska startpunkten för den tidsbaserade existentiella teorin. Ingenting (tom rumtid) behöver inget inledande/tidigare rättfärdigande eller anledning att existera, för att det existerar inte. I den, hursomhelst, är naturlagarna sanna dvs den är inte irrationell / anti-logisk, och bland naturlagarna finns de som, inklusive E=mc
2
, som nämner energimassa. Skulle energimassa kunna ”nämnas” utan att det skulle existera? Om ”ja” så skulle det vara absurt / anti-logiskt. Varför skulle verkligheten nämna saker som aldrig existerar? Eftersom naturlagarna är strikta och tack vare vår regel ”det som nämns måste existera eller uppstå” så får vi, varän (i de minsta storlekarna) där E=mc
2
nämns, så finns existens och därför en tät big bang. Faktumet att galaxer rusar iväg accelererandes från varandra leder till ingenting (tom rymd) i framtiden, och med mellanhanden ”naturlagar” så uppstår energimassa igen så tät som den kan vara. Ingen tids-delay mellan ingenting – naturlagar – energimassa men så snart en begränsad (av event-horizons som bestäms av ljuset ändliga hastighet) region blir ingenting/tomrum, så uppstår en big bang som sedan genom kosmisk expansion blir ingenting igen, som sedan blir tomrum och en ny big bang igen. Detta är den tidsmässiga beskrivningen om varför energimassa (som existerar sammanflätad med rumtid såsom i E=mc
2
) börjar tät och blir ingenting, och sedan repetitation.
Det åvanstående är en rivalteori till ”Gud skapade jorden på 6 dagar och vilade på den sjunde”. Den är inte intuitiv eftersom den har att göra med saker som vi inte hade att göra med under evolutionen: osynliga energimassarumtid/verkligheten/anti-distinktion som del av vårt resonemang. Den har också en multi-anledning orsak för vår existens: en tidsvis rationale involverandes början och slutet på big bang, kombinerad med en 3-pelares existentiell teori som rättfärdigar storlek och energimassa. Den är abstrakt/vetenskaplig men kan inte reduceras till simplare termer. Det är den minsta gemensamma nämnaren som alla kan tro på (oavsett religion).
Hur vagt har verkligheten definerat ”att representera”?
Oändligt vagt – vad som helst kan representera vad som helst.
Är representationen/representören verkligheten eller Allah?
Nej.
Kan någonting representera det som allt är del av?
Nej.
Då är storleks-tids-diagrammet oändligt dvs inget representerar verkligheten. Hur många är den? Hur många är Allah? 1.
Sa den…, eller skrev den en bok?
Detta motbevisar att Allah skrev en bok.
Igen: hur mycket av verkligheten kan representeras av, säg, en målning? All den?
Nej, hela verkligheten kan ej representeras. Precis som Allah inte kan fångas i ett ord/en bild.
Vi kan ha hypoteser – hur många hypoteser kan vi ha?
Om verkligheten är storlekar och tider, energimassa och rumtid så är det rektangulära storleks-tids-diagrammet med energimassarumtid i varje koordinat det universella sättet att representera allt som finns att representera.
Skriver den böcker? Nej, den är inte av författarnatur.
”Gud sa till Muhammed ord för ord…” är alltså ett falskt eller som mest ett metaforiskt påstående.
”Du måste göra ritualer för att inte hamna i helvetet, och i himmelen får du 72 oskulder” är med samma logik också ett falskt påstående.
Det finns tre alternativ som fundament för denna logik – kan du tänka ut ett fjärde?
1: Verkligheten är ett synonym för Allah,
2: eller så finns inte Allah
3: eller så finns 72 oskulder (ej ett alternativ eftersom verkligheten inte är av den naturen, då den är storleks-tids-energimassarumtid, att den skriver böcker).
Som tillägg till det rektangulära storleks-tids-diagrammet med oändlighetssymboler i varje hörn, och den evolutionära triangeln som representerar att livet blev mer komplext ju mer tiden gick (triangelns spets har sitt ursprung i mittersta storleken i den kända storleksskalan), finns följande hjärn-diagram:
Den existentiella teorin med dess tre pelare, dvs en oändlig storleksskala, energimassarumtid och distinktions-anti-distinktions-opposition, förutsäger att det borde finnas en liten bit DNA som kopierar sig.
Evolutionsteorin börjar med den första reproducerande formen. Det var en form som samlande kringliggande massa till en liknande form. Den existentiella teorin förutsäger existensen av oändligt många sådana former. Det som oundvikligen blir sant när man har reproduktion är att vissa dör medan andra överlever (liv och död), att antalet avkomma/kopior formen gör har betydelse och att det finns mutationer över tid. Följande är sant om formens avkomma: vissa dör medan andra överlever, antalet avkomma har betydelse och avkomman är annorlunda från originalformen. Dessa tre regler / naturlagar var inaktiva innan den första reproduktionen skedde. Nästa stora steg var när ett av dessa former möjliggjorde för sig själv att injicera sitt DNA in i andra formers reproduktiva mekanism, vilket utnyttjade princip nr 2: att antalet avkomma har betydelse. Det var det första viruset: den hijackade andras reproduktion. Regeln / naturlagen som kom i spel i.om. denna händelse var att ”makt” har betydelse: att hijacka andras reproduktiva mekanism ger evolutionära fördelar. Nu har vi lagt fram de fyra huvudregelerna som är evolutionsteori: först kom de tre första reglerna, sedan kom den fjärde: makt. Nästa stora händelse – för att skydda mot att virus hijackar alla reproduktiva system – var att ett immunsystem evolverade för att skydda mot virus hijacks-försök. Detta behövde multicellulärism. Precis som immunsystem kräver multicellularism, så behöver immunsystem multikönadhet: för att vinna i kampen där virus muterar för att kringgå immunsystem så behöver immunsystemet också maximalt med mutation. Att mixa gener från två kön skapar ett mer muterat immunsystem, vilket håller ut i kampen mot virus där virus ”försöker” mutera sig runt immunsystemet. Den nästa stora händelsen var att en av dessa multicellulära organismer – en fisk eller mask – av det manliga könet muterade till att vara agressiv och förinta andra manliga varelser. Han skulle ha fått högre tillgång till kvinnliga organismer jämfört med hans icke-agressiva likar. Detta kan också kallas ”makt” eftersom agressiva hanar hijackar andra hanars tillgång till kvinnor genom att döda hanarna. Detta orsakar dinosaurierna eftersom större muskelmassa och skarpare vapen är bättre på att döda rivalerna. Bland dinosaurierna fanns moder-avkomma-bandet, ditplacerad av evolutionen eftersom det var en fördel för mödrar att se sina barn överleva till vuxenskap. Detta band muterade till att involvera flock-medlemmar eftersom en grupp sammarbetandes bättre kan vinna över individualister i bråk om vad som helst. Nästa stora steg var att någon kartlade flocken, i sin hjärna, som en hierarki (upp-ned-axeln) med en längtan efter att stå högst upp i hierarkin. Denna kapitalistiska tävlan mot toppen gjorde att hjärnan växte sig större – större minnesbank, mer detaljrika förutsägelser och snabbare planering är alla fördelar som kommer från att ha ett större kortex.
Du har en komposit-säker sanning beståendes av två säkra sanningar: du kan med säkerhet säga att du tänker (för att om du skulle bli lurad: att bli lurad är en tankeprocess) och att du existerar (eftersom att bli lurad kräver den som blir lurad). Jag tänker och jag finns är ett påstående men två sanningar. Du kan med säkerhet påstå dig ha ”distinktion” eftersom du har att göra med multipla separata entiteter (såsom ”jag” och ”tankar”). Man kan säga, när man ser den säkra sanningens ”jag tänker” och ”jag existerar”, att avståendet/mellanrummet mellan de två idéerna (tänkare och tanke) är distinktion. Avståendet/mellanrummet som separarar tänkare från tanke är nödvändigt för ”disktinktion” att härledas som säker sanning följandes ur nästa logiska steg, med ursprunget av den originella primära säkra sanningen.
Är alla distinkta entiteter del av en singulär verklighet om ”verkligheten” är definierad som ”det som allt är del av”? Med andra ord: om vi ritar distinktion på vänster sida av ett papper och anti-distinktion (distinktion´s motsats: en ensam verklighet – det som allt är del av. Zoomandes ut maximalt) på höger sida av pappret, kan då distinktion representera höger sida av pappret dvs anti-distinktion? Hur skulle någon distinkt entitet kunna vara/representera motsatsen till vad representation/distinktion är? Vilken representation som helst av anti-distinktion/verkligheten måste ha minst tre entiteter: tänkare, mellanrummet mellan tänkare och tanke, och tanke.
Separation/distinktion är antaget i representation, vilket innebär att anti-distinktion är orepreserbart.
Hur vagt har universum/Gud definerat vad en representation är dvs när en representation sker? Våra hjärnor använder neuroner för att representera, men vad sägs om – istället för neuroner (oavsett om hjärnor är inblandade eller inte) – universum låter vilket slumpmässigt valt objekt som helst låta sig sägas, såsom neuroner sägs, representera verkligheten? Universum har definierat ”representation” oändligt vagt dvs uteslutandes hjärnor så kan vilket slumpmässigt objekt som helst spotant bli/vara symbolen för all verklighet – för att universum har definierat ”representera” oändligt vagt. Trots den oändligt vaga definitionen av vad som representerar vad, så gör distinktions-anti-distinktions-oppositionen (linjen som separerar vänster sida av pappret från höger sida; motsättningen mellan distinktion och anti-distinktion) att verkligheten är orepresenterbar. Om verkligheten är anti-distinktion då finns ingen distinktion (representation är oundvikligen distinktion), trots universums oändligt vaga definition av ”representera”, fånga verkligheten. I representationer kan vi räkna minst tre saker och det vi försöker representera är en sak utan någonting utanför den. Faktumet att representationer innehåller distinktion gör att att fånga verkligheten (allt som ett) omöjligt.
Vi kan ha oändligt många eller oändligt innehållsfulla/stora representationer/hypoteser – såsom ett oändligt storleks-tids-diagram – och genom att abstrakt peka till verkligheten, så gör universums regel att ingenting representerar verkligheten trots universums oändligt vaga definition av ”representera” av oändligt mycket, gör verkligheten orepresenterbar. Detta kan bara betyda en sak: verkligheten – som vi känner som storlekar och tider (ett storleks-tids-diagram) – är oändligt. Det finns oändligt stort och oändligt litet med oändligt mycket dåtid och oändligt mycket framtid. Detta rektangulära storleks-tids-diagram dvs vår vardagsvärld av storlek-tid har oändligheter överallt.
Energimassa i rumtid: ett i noll, existens i icke-existens, någonting i ingenting – såsom definierats av E=mc
2
där c
2
står för ljusets hastighet (rum över tid dvs rumtid/noll/icke-existens) och E=m refererar till energimassa (existens, någonting, allt).
Distinktions-anti-distinktions-opposition: vi lever i en singulär verklighet men vi ser multipla objekt.
En oändlig storleksskala.
De åvanstående tre idéerna är en existentiell teori (en teori som förklarar existensen av en reproduktiv form dvs evolutions början dvs vår existens). Det är modernt att använda sig av tre likvärdiga idéer för att förklara ens existens – alla tidigare existentiella teorier har antingen använt en enda idé (monoteism) eller en saga/myt (många vardagliga (ej vetenskapliga/abstrakta) idéer) för att förklara existens.
Den förutsägande kvalitén som gör denna existentiella teori till en vetenskaplig teori är att den, baserat på en oändlig storleksskala av energimassarumtid och distinktions-anti-distinktions-opposition, förutsäger att det i en oändlig storleksskala borde finnas en storlek där reproduktion (DNA) sker. Den existentiella teorin förutsäger det första DNA:t, och från det får vi evolutionär teori.
En annan förutsägande kvalité är att teorin förutsäger att big bang borde varit
tät
. A-priori begynnelsen av universum är logiskt sett tomhet eftersom tomhet inte behöver någon tidigare/föreliggande logiskt rättfärdigande eftersom det ej existerar. I tom rumtid är naturlagarna sanna, såsom naturlagarna som hanterar energimassa (såsom E=mc
2
), och därför börjar big bang oändligt tät – för att E=mc
2
är lika sann samtidigt i de minsta storlekarna. De minsta tomma rymderna hade E=mc
2
som sann inom sig direkt när det fanns ingenting, vilket förutsäger en tät big bang. En region, inom event horizons gjorda av energimassa rusandes iväg i >c (pga mörk energi accelererandes kosmisk expansion) är per definition ”ingenting” i vilket E=mc
2
är sann i de minsta utrymmena, vilket åstadkommer en big bang utom räckhåll för de närmaste ( v = >c) energimassa. Ingenting (utom räckhåll för närmaste energimassa för att den är på väg bortåt i >c) orsakas i centrumpunkten som har event horizons som gräns längst bort, vilket leder till en big bang (eftersom naturlagarna uppbringar energimassa i det tomma centrumet).
Det är en stor historisk händelse att det äntligen finns ett ateistiskt argument i form av en universitetskurs: det är en existentiell teori plus evolution som inte behöver en personifierad gud för att fungera, utan dess pelare (oändlig storleksskala av energimassarumtid och distinktions-anti-distinktions-opposition) kan inte ha en personifierad gud tillagd till dem som en fjärde pelare utan att teorin låter löjlig. Det är inte bara så att teorin inte behöver en personifierad gud, utan att lägga till en gud förstör teorins minimalistiska rationellt kompletta skönhet. Gudar förfular teorin. Teorins upptäckt är en stor historisk händelse eftersom aldrig förr har en hel kurs (börjandes med säker sanning, gåendes genom den existentiella teorin och slutandes i evolution) lagts fram i ateismens intellektuella debatt, som ett argument mot en personifierad gud.
Anatomin i hjärnan från att höra säker sanning (jag tänker & jag finns) – början av denna kurs – skapar samma neuronala pathways / associationer mellan idéer i varje person som hör vet säker sanning. Det logiska steget till ”distinktion” är att notera, som meta-analys av den primära säkra sanningen – att man har många idéer (jag tänker OCH jag finns) och att man kan ta den logiska vägen till nästa steg i kursen (distinktion finns). Att sedan motsätta anti-distinktion med distinktion skapar den oförnimmbara – ”mot reson” (eftersom logik är, i simpla människor, enbart visuell) – slutsatsen att vi/distinktion inte kan se verkligheten/anti-distinktion. Distinktions-anti-distinktions-oppositionen är svårbegriplig för att den – såsom formell logik eller matematik – enbart använder ord istället för bilder (den lingvistiska hjärnhalvan istället för den visuella). Vi evolverade till att säga ”om jag kan se det så tror jag på det” och det är en god tumregel eftersom praktiska sekvenser händelser kan verifieras som sanna eller osanna genom att visualisera dem. Men i denna filosofi: nej – det måste vara lingvistiskt att vi förnekar oss själva konceptet ”all verklighet”, vilket leder till slutsatsen att det finns mer till verkligheten än någonting – oavsett hur vagt universum definerat ”att representera” – representerar. Detta tillägger oändligt många storlekar till vår abstrakta stoorleksskala / storleks-tids-diagrammet; det gör en rektangel (med storlek på y-axeln och tid på x-axeln) med oändlighetstecken i varje hörn, som i sin tur blir en pelare i vår personlig-gud-förnekande existentiella teori.
Att komma från säker sanningen genom enbart logiska steg (meta-analyser och motsättningsskapande av motsatser) till en existentiell teori som förutsäer evolutionen är en stor historisk händelse i ateismens historia.
I ett historiskt sammanhang är anatomin (neurala anslutningar mellan idéer och sekvenser logik) som skapas av denna kurs som ett paradigm-shifte in i en ny era av civilisation – en era liknande den som finns på oändligt många planeter vars vetenskap kommit längre än våra 4.5 miljarder års mittenpunkt i en vanlig vattenbärande planets historia.
Evolution, genom att börja från ”en massa som samlar kringliggande massa till en liknande form” kliver fram från den existentiella teorins oändliga storleksskala av energimassarumtid. Om vi antar att DNA är replikationsmolekylen så kan vi ta steget till – klivandes över hur cellväggar evolverade osv – till att virus hijackar andras reproduktiva system. Detta – i den universella inter-planetära rymdvarelsekulturen – formuleras som, i böcker av logik, som att de tre första reglerna uppkommer (liv/död, antalet avkomma har betydelse och ”det sker mutationer i varje generationsskifte”) och sedan att en fjärde regel uppkommer (makt, med virus). Denna historia – som i vår kurs börjar från den första reproduktiva formen och slutar i att finslipa anatomin bakom makt i män – är visualiseringsbar som en grottmanna-historias narrativ likt dem vi evolverade till att se/höra. Vi kan proof-checka/validera historian genom att se den visuellt. Evolutions visuella natur är i stark kontrast till den rent linguistiska/abstraka natur som den existentiella teorin har.
På tal om ”abstrakta” beskrivningar dvs beskrivningar som gör det väldigt klart för oss att vår förståelse av universum bara är en karta (en referens) och inte verkligheten i sig (tänk på Plato´s och Kant´s grottmetafor och ”saken är inte saken själv”-filosofier”)… Storleksskalan av energimassarumtid, i storleken av kvantfysik har oss beskrivandes fotoner etc användandes både våg-beskrivningar med fokus på längder i rymd (dessa är ”rumtids-beskrivningar”) OCH – i vår-partikel-dualitet – energimassabeskrivningen dvs att energin i en foton är dess färg. Färg (såsom den uppfattas genom ögonen), våg/rumtids-beskrivningen och partikel-energi/energimassa-beskrivningen är alla legitimea beskrivningar av kvantfysiken. Vår förmåga att beskriva vilken massa/vilket fenomen som helst med både energimassa- och rumtids-beskrivningar löper genom hela storleksskalan. Du kan föreställa dig två linjer – en för energimassa och en för rumtid – gåendes vertikalt genom alla bilder på storleks-axeln. Tilläggandes komplexitet på detta finns det två linjer till – tyngdlagen och elektromagnetism – båda gåendes längs storleks-axeln, tyngdlagen har dess dualitet av energimassa- och rumtids-beskrivningar och elektromagnetism likaså har desamma, dvs energimassa och rumtidsbeskrivningar. Tyngdlagen är både Newtonisk ”massor dras till massor” (energimassas fokus på massa) och Einsteinsk ”rumtids krökning” (rumtids fokus på rum) – båda beskrivningar är korrekta.
Jonatan Mustonen, Sweden
Posted on
08/05/2017
17/05/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Swedish important semi-book 2017
Can we
timetravel? We can proceed from era to era, just like dinosaurs preceded man and not vice versa – its a universal sequence on any planet.
Heaven/karma instinctual but collides with main picture.
Water, primordial soup, proteins, dns strand. Single cell reproducing multiplying. Then 1 of these cells thought “ill inject my own dna into some other cell”, hijack its reproductive system. Very beneficial. So first there were 3 rules: life n death, number of offspring matters and mutation in each generationshift, then with viruses came the 4th rule “power” – hijacking others’ reproductive system. Then theres an arms race between viruses and … “Our kind of” organism, so to mutate our immune system faster two genders arose. Then fights between males led to the dinosaurs. Then brains bonded into groups to fight individualists. Then capitalist power struggles within the group made the brain grow larger, we’re good at planning and remembering things. Then we get to kingdoms. From the water puddle to the 21 st century. Those who proceed to the next era will live in a world where holy book-group bonds are weak and a universal courses group bond is the strongest, thus national wars or civilizational wars where identity is based on other than this science will be impossible. The planet has two future ways to go 60 years from now and one is better but needs some investment of time until everybody knows this course.
Theres a universal course/book thats on every advanced enough planet throughout the universe and at the regeneration of every universe. If you consider the entire corpus of human knowledge, youd find 3 rational starting points: certain truth, nothingness and that reality is one. Just like dinosaurs predate humans the first chapter with the 3 starting points predate the connecting of “i think n i exist, distinction” and “reality is one, antidistinction. Which leads to that there is more to reality than can be contemplated meaning that its infinite. Thats chaper 2: like multiplication and division are much higher levels of mathematics than adding and subtracting, chaper 2 is higher than the starting points in chapter 1.
———
If you want to be altruistic/selfless you can think about the millions of lives lost or living as refugees due to religious wars and group-loyalties based on ideology/religion. What if group-loyalty could be, for everyone, based on a single universal ideology? Then friendship ties, shared histories, well-mixing personalities and the like would form groups that don´t have a religious mission/an ideological drive. When all ideologies are erased – and religions too – then simple biological mechanisms like common goals, shared interests and family ties bind us together – and those kind of conglomerations are more likely to disintegrate than if there is a holy book or any ideological book as the binding principle between people. If ISIS would be educated then it would disintegrate and many civil wars break out among different families in Iraq/Syria – but there would not be this major cleft between western&modern and holy&dogmatic.
If you want to be selfish like Ayn Rand: the upcoming world order / economy will be a meritocracy based on who advances or knows the most science. The ancient Chinese had a government where even the lowest peasant, if he passed a test in Confuscious´ teachings, could elevate himself higher in the society. Hierarchy is based on what is objectively to be admired; hierarchy is based on what infinitely many extraterrestrials in consensus have agreed upon be the criteria for how a human´s thoughts should be wired; hierarchy is based on the universe´s disposition to reward those with the most accurate world-view or whom advance the pre-existing world-view and spread it to others – the universe wants us choose to elevate in the hierarchy those whom appriciate the universe most fully, wholistically and most accurately. The old power-system based on money is upheld by banks and is based on present day humans´ ties to the past. There will be an overlap between the old bank-based system for establishing VIP-status and the new economy which is a meritocracy based on science. If we want to be like planets ahead of us in the evolution of history, we ought to adapt the meritocracy-economy. After a few generations inherited money seems less legitimate than knowing or advancing science and by doing so wiring one´s cortex (flexible thinking part of the brain) as universally as possible (as much like the consensus among extraterrestrials is as possible).
There are three universal starting points for the universal course which will wire your brain universally. What I mean by “universal” is that:
A) it is based on science meaning that it is retrievable from anywhere at any time; it is available universally unlike some time-specific language-specific location-specific holy-book-revalation.
B) universal means that it is how aliens/extraterrestrials sooner or later wire their brains. Sure: they can choose to live in a multi-worldviewical world but sooner or later the truth will conquer meaning that all various ideas among every tribe or nation will congregate (like a lens focuses many beams of light into one focal point) into a single set of ideas and prioritarizations – a single world-view will emerge from the many. It is the identical world-view that all civilizing planets will congregate to/toward because science is universal. This congregating is as much of a universal step in evolution as that a planet with water will eventually have bacteria. Eventually everyone will know the course and the idea of this book. “What do you believe?” will no longer be a question because everyone has wired their cortex´s ideas based on universal ideas/science.
——–
Am I a muslim?
I have my size-time-diagram into which everything fits and this diagram being infinite gives an existential theory because:
– sizes justify (are the cause of) one another, so there´s infinite justification.
– time is infinite and our universe is observed to become nothingness in the future, and nothingness would be absurd if not for the fact that in the smallest spaces energymass is summoned because E=mc2 is a stable, constant law of nature.
– there can only be separate distinct entities if distinction is counter-balanced and happens in non-distinction (a singular Reality). This point is much like the previous point of that only in nothingness can somethingness be summoned.
God, then, if we are to look for a meaning for the word, cannot be:
– a specific object, size nor time within something infinitely larger
– cannot, by definition, be apart from and “beyond” [that of which all is part] (Reality). Reality being an infinite size- and time-range of energymasspacetime is enough of an existential theory to explain us being here, the Big Bang, and the rest of the questions. God would, if claimed to be “beyond” the existential theory, be an unnecessary unproven assumption but more to the point: God would be “unreal” if Reality is defined as we define it here. Such “beyond Reality”-gods are unreal. What´s more is that the phrase “Allah akbar” (God is the biggest/greatest) wouldn´t be true if Reality/[that of which all is part] is God plus Reality – if [that of which all is part] has two major components, God and an energymasspacetime sizerange etc (the existential theory), then the sum of those two components is greater than God.
God, thus, obviously means Reallity by the definition of God being the greatest. God is then infinite. It makes sense to see people in awe over how much they can study, when they know there´s infinitely many fields of science which we do not have access to but which are logical and necessities for Reality to hold together. There being nothing absurd in an infinite size-range that resembles our known size-range (from quantum physics to the visible universe) is awesome and the highest you could possibly worship. This again proves that God is just a synonym for Reality/the existential theory.
Having studied all fields of science i.e. all sizes is the known sizerange, seeing how they all make up (justify) eachother (that it´s just zooming in and zooming out), the wisdom that the sizerange is infinite (that there are infinitely many sizes making up one another) from the distinction (I think & I am logical path) and anti-distinction (that Reality is one) -thing, is the reason why we exist and God is not some size (sizes are not minds, except through evolution). Having studied all known sizes and knowing that the sizerange is infinite: it is an explanation to why we´re here (akin to the Adam and Eve story or “God created earth in 6 days” story) but it is not a revalation-giving thing – the Quran wasn´t written by God because God is not the kind of thing that writes/dictates stories. God being an infinite sizerange as thus our Creator is true, but the true way to get knowledge, rituals/pictoral representations and even guidance is through my work, not the work of the holy book-writers. The holy book writers might have said something true about God (just like I do in my work) – but that is true of science textbooks moreso – and they all said false things such as that God talks/gives revalations/authors holy books.
I can see the bronze-age marketing-team´s standpoint: people are more prone to follow dictates if they´re said to come from something/someone “higher than human” i.e. a God or a ghost/spirit. Being invisible in as nonsense-a-way as some rituals are, is great for marketing. Everyone knows how humans thing – they´re themselves human; we are only partly rational (a computer is rational) in what we think – all our animal lusts bias or interrupt the thoughts that are as logical as they get, but they´re always going to be based against an evolutionary background just like the pitfall that my abstract diagram-including infinity-mentioning world-view is more like algebra than “what a world-view (context in which we are) should be thinking about that we lived for millions of years on the savannah, only needing to know (in one´s world-view) where the water-source is or whom stands under whom in the social hierarchy. We´ve mapped geographies, the use-based properties of objects/tools and personalities (and still do) for a gazillion years – only with the advent of science SOME of us achieved higher i.e. used their evolved meager toolkit with all its biases to scetch out something like the theory of evolution in the 1800s. Looking at the evolution of [what we use our memory for]/how we map our surroundings/our world-view, before we mapped social relationships we mapped geographies. Before we mapped the functions of inventions (tools) our map only contained caveman tools (sharp stones and spears). The next step is to map one´s context as an infinite size-time-diagram (where size and time are really the same, but abstract thinking allows us to separate them into two distinct axises) or energymasspacetime (with its´ many laws of nature found in every school textbook in the world) and the distinction-antidistinction-
thing which feels so awkward/abstract that one wonders why one needs it as pillar 3 of the existential theory: the answer is: it wasn´t invented (the words “I see a distinct object” or “why is there distinction?” weren´t said in the same breath as “Reality is one” or “energymass and spacetime unite”) until I did it in the 21st century). It might seem trivial to mention that separate entities exist in a singular Reality – it´s so obvious (that´s why no-one cared to make a big fuzz out of inventing it) but it makes the existential theory have three pillars (all of which can seem obvious) and not 4 – there´s nothing more to add to the existential theory once you´ve added the obvious “separation in antidistinction”-statement. I want to know how aliens (the infinitely many of them, steered by science toward an incommon path) think because its synonymous to finding a TRUE “key to history” (Marx thought the key was equality, Hitler thought the key was racial superiority and a brutally competative relationship between races, Capitalism thinks it´s freedom (less government), some might think they “key to history” is to fund technological development). “How aliens think” is a shorthand way of saying “the key to history” or “what will happen next/eventually and in hindsight seen as akin to the era of ancient grecoroman culture, the Industrial Revolution or the Digital revolution)”. It´s what we´re steered towards; it´s the closest thing we get to divine guidance. It´s simply universal (drawn on science and practiced by infinitely many aliens) guidance/suggestions/
recommendations that we, as a species, can choose to promogate and thus “follow” or if we´ll stick to multiculturalism´s many -ism´s like political quran-based islamism or christian-based “the holy book gave me this”-morality and codes of conduct. Some -ism´s are dangerous (like quran-based politics and law) while some -ism´s like christianity give too much credit to the -ism for simple human decency (in an age of extreme wealth globally). When my tummy is full I´m a decent person – I try to make money but I´m not desparate after extreme wealth because I know that my caveman-brain´s “need” for power (through status-symbols and freedom of space my environment to maximize the effectiveness of my hobby (writing)) won´t get satisfied no matter what external extravaganzas trigger my eyeballs, nor can people (socializing) make me much more satisfied than I am right now because all that is interesting and that there is to people is their brain – and after a few weeks together there´ll be nothing I know nor any mental tool that I use that won´t, despite copyright, be in the hands of my friend: we won´t talk science (me teaching him/her) after all the science has been taught. I don´t care to teach trivia so when I say “I teach SCIENCE” I mean a finite thing: the existential theory plus something from each level of the known sizerange. Getting a P.hD from specializing on finding the structure of a rare protein only found in the feet of Amazonian forrest-mice is to put your eyes too close to the diagram; P.hDs for specializing/having a very narrow topic for one´s mind to engage in are for people who don´t see the forest for the trees and care to rather look at one leaf of one tree instead of thinking about and seeing the forest as a whole. I´m a forest person – a leaf 10 cm from my eyes just bugs me. That´s why there is a finite repertoire to what I call “science” – it takes a few days for me (my accomplishment/my work) to be fully understood and if repeated repetative. One only needs to know why/where one exists (the existential theory) once – one can´t forget it because we are made to remember the very context in which we live (here an evolutionary bias helps us: when someone explains “what the world is” we remember it because “what the world was” in caveman days was the most useful thing the brain could do – in fact we evolved such large brains because bigger brains remember better (can moreso map social relationships, successfull or unsuccesfull learning-experiences). We want to climb upwards in the hierarchy, find a mate, etc but all these wants and needs would be useless (they´d having nothing to work on) if it weren´t for the map (of social relationships etc) that our brain is capable of remembering. We are inclined to remember existential theories because such knowledge about our place in the context was as useful as mapping whom is married to whom. This bias, by the way, is something holy book writers used to get people interested in their book. “God created earth in 6 days (not 5)” is memorable because of our bias toward wanting to know about “creation of the world” – so the number “6 days” is remembered too because it adds to the map that we then work on to seek power and other evolutionary benefits. It´s hard to make plans that have one reach evolutionary benefits if one does not know one´s environment/the external world. “6 days for creating this place/world” adds to one´s map of the environment/place/external world. We have a bias for remembering it. Too bad the bronze-age holy books used this marketing trick (“hey, let´s say something about their world (like the creation of it) because that would be something they remember!”) to give pseudo- existential theories. The holy books made sales because not only do people want information about their context, people also want God to talk and interfere with day-to-day personal activites. Once you have a pseudo-explanation for how/why the world was created, you´re free to add to that pseudo-explanation that “the creator talks”. It´s impossible to add such a talking thing to my existential theory – not only is it unnecessary (my theory works stand-alone) but it also contradicts basically every concept of my existential theory. The very definitions of energymasspacetime (meaning that God had nothingness as the canvas to paint on – a nothingness that needs energymass and summons it because of the laws of nature inherent in that nothingness – and chose to paint a beginning with as-dense-as-can-be (just like E=mc2 would´ve created it because E=mc2 is true in the smallest spaces). Where was God when this happened? Couldn´t have been energymass because energymass is only summoned once the universe becomes pure nothingness. If God is not energymass and energymass is existence – then God doesn´t exist / God is nothing. What doesn´t exist or is nothing doesn´t give revalations to men, doesn´t care whom you sleep with, etc. Is God or God´s heaven a location in our size of infinite spacetime? In that case God is simply a far-away alien (which warrants questions about its evolution) but again – it doesn´t talk to us because of the distance and we wouldn´t be too impressed even if an evolved God did talk to us (we are quite like it – our science is the same, our world-view is the same). God is not a location in a size but is God a size? The sizerange is infinite (as proven by distinction not being able to see antidistinction) and that´d mean that there´s a creator to God (and that thing too has a creator, ad infinitum) IN THE SAME WAY as humans built cities or atoms make molecules. Again, if God is a size it warrant´s the question: is God every location of that size or is God, like humans, in a location of that size? Whatever be the case, God still couldn´t communicate with us. Since God fits neither in the context of energymasspacetime nor the context of the sizerange, a God-theory absolutely contradicts the true theory. What is said about God – that God is the greatest – makes only one “location”/notion in the existential theory correspond to a non-talking uncaring God: the theory itself (and more precisely Reality/[that of which all is part]) is the greatest. It certainly doesn´t hear/talk nor give revalations because it comes as an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime. When you tell this science, you can get to the point where you define Reality as “that of which all is part” and the greatest – you can even get to antidistinction/the unrepresentability of Reality (fully, because we do represent some things) and people might still hope that a talking God can exist. But as soon as you mention the less abstract (the more abstract was that [that of which all is part cannot be observed]), the God-theory either surrenders or is in conflict with a/the existential theory which certainly is true (anyone can verify how the components of the theory fit together, make sense and explain everything). God as a synonym for Reality is boring – why do we even have two words if we mean the same (scientific sizerange) thing.
If you assume that God is a synonym for Reality (which comes as an infinite sizescale, which in turn predicts a DNA-strand somewhere and voila: everything is explained), then I believe in your God. It doesn´t appriciate my appriciation of it though, nor do rituals, following rules (made by men) etc please it. If I am to “show my appriciation to it” I do it by writing as I do right now – that´s my worship of it: but I´m under no illusion that this writing would please God by being logical (eventhough Reality itself is logical too – so we have something incommon) – me writing can be called worship but the only appriciating recipients of my writing are me and readers of my text. Whatever I write about Reality/God doesn´t please God (because God is not a thing that listens, likes worship by others and other human needs) – whatever worshippers do, I hope they do it for themselves and for other humans because no-one else is able to care or comprehend the worship. I would do the muslim prayer if I felt that that kind of discipline would benefit me (and a few times I did get a good feeling from going to the mosque and being among worshippers). It´s so easy to adapt to the customs of one´s peers (and especially one´s superiors, if one believes that there are those) that my attitude toward worship/ritual is “when in Rome, do like the romans (if you or others gain something out of it)”. The world is complex – I could have the same attitude toward the beliefs of islam: that I´ll just say that something is through eventhough it obviously isn´t because it contradicts, say, a talking holy book-writing God. Could I make myself believe that something talkative is God? The belief disintegrates and I get the foul feeling of that I´ve used my valuable memory to note down a lie everytime I would think just one step/association further from the belief itself. I can believe (in anything) but analyzing it even the smallest amount will make me disbelieve it. But when you´re in the mood of not analyzing – like when one is having a panic attack on one´s death-bed – I´ll be (extremely) simplistic and do what some people seem to always do: “believe (in something that breaks down when analyzed)”. What confuses me is that some people believe all the time – they seem perfectly sane but they believe in a talking, scripture-giving God (that doesn´t fit anywhere in the existential theory). Do they need comfort (from untruth) all the time? It seems like they´re trying to argue their position, though. A perplexing phenomenon at first glance but when you consider that they´re uneducated about my existential theory, any theory will do (even a talking God-theory). I am not hateful of it when I see it in other people – I see it as humorous/ridicilous – but when it binds people together (to form what in essence is an army) and there´s many of them (10 000 religions/”armies”) the world´s got a problem. Binding people together through their shared scripture and their belief that something impossible is true is bad because groups tend to be more violent than individualists – especially if their holy text 1) seems to bind billions of people to their army (morale-strength amplification in a group is the root of violence), and 2) preaches violence/disrespect (many holy books are xenophobic and eager to create an “us vs. them”-social dynamic). If the holy book is taken seriously (if it can´t be thrown in the trash) then we have bronze-age xenophobia (based on who likes the book and who doesn´t) creeping into the modern day, and we also have artificial bonding/loyalty – we basically get groups who are hostile (or more disrespectful) toward anyone who doesn´t see the point (“there´s a talking God”) they´re promoting. It´s such an easily fixable problem: if you read my work you simply cannot believe in a talking God – my professional role is that you can give me ANY individual and I can “convert” him/her into not believing in a talking God. Whether this person will follow his or her group´s rituals or codes of conduct, though, is up to them – it´s sheer peer pressure.
The “us vs. them” “we are a big group” (and especially) “we should convert the whole world so that they use their precious memory for knowing nonsense like we do” are such great reasons for violence – and of course it´s fixable because what these people lack is education: only where there is no theory, can a pseudo-theory take root. Only where there is no argument/debate/science can “God talks” seem like legitimate truth. This means that much of the world´s violence is due to a lack of education (about the big questions i.e. what I talk about). Sure: some religions can be interpreted to say “kill the infidels” or some other explicit declaration of war – but it´s hard for a religion to survive if it constantly preaces fighting (it must have more clever tactics than that – but it does tend to seek world-dominion). I´m not so worried that someone reads the Quran and thinks “I´ll help the [unbelieves in the Quran´s talking God] to get to hell faster, because the Quran says that that´s where they belong”. I am worried about that the Quran (or any holy book) is the glue that binds people together. Religion is the last glue before we enter an era where obviously arbitrary things like nationalism or language makes strangers feel more familiar with eachother. Nation and language aren´t taken that seriously – nor should religion be, but it is. This binding-effect that holy books have is what makes ISIS / the taliban etc so hard to defeat – they think, not only that they have an all-seeing revalation-giving God on their side, but they also have the exact same copy of a book that a billion people have. They feel strong (with their, seemingly to them, superior numbers). Obviously ISIS underestimated the ability of the Quran to draw in arab nations into the fight over Iraq & Syria – the modern world simply leaned on the fact that ISIS are not muslims because they interpret the bronze-age ramble wrong. But ISIS / the taliban is still a factor – the quran binds too many people together in certain areas of the world – violence is caused, due to the binding-effect, the “moral superiority”-effect, the “power in numbers and billions of people read the Quran”-effect etc (all these effects are there even if you skip the parts about the talking God who word for word said the Quran) make men as prone to violence as anything can make them: they´re a group with an “us vs. them” dogma & feeling and they feel like they have power in numbers. Add to that the frustration over having to finance an own home before one can ejaculate. Those circumstances can make the group take up arms and “send the infidels where they belong”. Following the commandments frustrates, the whole notion of “let´s all prioritize this text highest (our favorite book) so that we´re bound together” and that the text itself can be interpreted as violent all are a breeding-ground for trouble – and when you´re in the trouble that the text creates, you are not in the state of mind to do the internal debate necessary to disprove a talking God and thus make your whole way of life become something that you either do as meaningless fun or don´t do because no-one cares. But just as some people want to become professional soccer players and some atheists do zen-meditation, humans (by personal preference) want hobbies, to take up a discipline, to do something that adds, say, pride to their life. I don´t personally care about soccer and I don´t feel pride from doing any ritual, but I can definitely see that others take the muslim prayers like an athlete takes their sport. It´s possible to find out the objective truth about whether these prayers “please God or not” (by, like I´ve done in this text, disproving all kinds of false Gods and making the real God more mundane and not a talker). Rituals don´t please Reality/”the energymasspacetime sizerange” because it is not a thing that gets pleased – it´s like trying to please a rock. You do the prayers because you enjoy the pride/hobby for its own sake – like someone doing sports likes his/her sport. Pleasing a rock/God to get to a “heaven” (which too doesn´t fit into the true existential theory) is stupid unless it´s akin to a hobby/sport where you do it for doing it´s sake. Same thing with the “heaven hates ham”-thing – when you know enough science (enough = what I´ve written so far in this text) you´ll realize that the whole ham-prohibition is man-made (from the bronze age) and linked to some pre-scientific nonsense from-the-horse´s-mouth-
statement (can´t say rationale because it´s dogma). If you (and secondarily your peers) are dedicated to nonsense (whether it be sports, stamp-collecting, memorizing capitals or not eating pork), then do it if it does something good like prove to yourself (and others) that you have a strong discipline (even though your effort is misdirected toward nonsense). I can invent a ritual and do it every day, and maybe I´d feel pride over that I can keep to a schedule of nonsense, but I would never claim the theory that there is a talking God, and by extention I wouldn´t say that that ficticious talker prohibited ham. The mundane action must be differentiated from the logical argument. Ham-prohibitions and talking Gods are artifacts that belong in the past – modern white A4-paper is too beautiful for someone to write something as erroneous as “there is a talking God” on it. But as I´m writing this, people are dying because religion binds them together (and frustrates them, and boosts their war-morale in many ways). My work can cause a civil war within ISIS – a civil rift so permiating that only family ties, friendships and common goals (to get money, not to spread islam) can keep people together in groups. Once my existential theory is known there will still be crime and instability in Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan, but the evil deeds will only be committed by groups of 2-3 people – not 20 000 of them. The binding effect of the Quran can most clearly be seen in that internet-propaganda made Quran-readers from the USA and Europe go fight in Syria – everyone wants a group and it´s totally human to assume that knowing the same book will be enough for a bond to be as strong as one wants it to be.
