The way energymass is mentioned is straight-forward: energy is mass (hence the word “energymass”). The way spacetime is mentioned is a little more subtle. c is the speed of light, and as a speed is a distance over time. Distance is space and time is time – spacetime. Thus c2 is spacetime.
A single equation unifying energymass and spacetime.
As physical observers we are energymass; as the intrinsic laws of nature such as 1=1 we are spacetime. Also, energymass requires spacetime – there cannot be mass without a space for it to be in nor energy without time to happen during. The equation E=mc2 mentions us – both our spacetime and our energymass. We are part of whatever is referred to by the equation.
Just as the linguistic equation itself, though language usually has us visually imagine the meaning of the words, does not produce any imaginations, the energymassspacetime found as the intertwining of energymass with spacetime does not cause any imagination.
We cannot see, but we can talk about, the conclusion of the equation and similarily we cannot see but can talk about energymassspacetime.
——–/2.2——-
——2.3—-
The core idea in this book, the foundation for all other ideas in this book, is the proof for that we need a concept like “the unthinkable; thought!”. The same proof then proves that there is more to the sizescale than can be observed.
The proof for that reality cannot be observed i.e. for that “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, is contained within this very sentence. “That of which all is part” is that which all observers (you) are part of, thus by being part of it being separate from it is negated and impossible. As Descartes argued: that there is a thinker can be known to be true and that there is thought can be known to be true, thus separation (and conveniently between observer and thought) is proven by Descartes. This separation is as much a certainty as the existence of that of which all is part, and thus the unobservability (unthinkability) of that of which all is part.
—–/2.3—-
There are many paths to the same conclusion: E=mc2 and Descartes´ “I think and I am” is one path, the contemplation of intertwinedness and separation is another.
Another way is a thought experiment: imagine a square made of only four parts. The four parts represent all knowable parts (basically every quantum particle in the visible universe) and the entire square itself represents the sum of all parts. Seeing the square and the parts from the outside is easy when you are not one of the four parts, but if you were it would be impossible to have the outside view of the entire square. How could you built a representation out of the four parts which is the entire square, if you mind the observer (yourself)? Would any observation made up of any or all the parts be an observation of the entire square? No, thus that of which all is part (reality) cannot be observed, hence there is more to the sizescale than the knowable sizescale.
——3.1
The sizescale
What could be the unknowable aspect of reality? If it is an object within the known maximum and minimum limits of size, then we know that reality can hide something and tell us it is hidden. This basically means that the unknown object does not exert gravitational force, electromagnetic force nor any other interaction with any possible amplifier/sensor/observer. By knowing this about it, are we not contemplating the unknowable object and hence succeeded in somewhat knowing it?
With this defintion, that which can be contemplated is included in our observation and hence the unknown part must be infinite for there to be more to reality than our observation can grasp.
One thing that can be infinite – and is in fact infinite in pi, calculus, fractals and many other mathematical concepts – is size. The size continuum, from now on called “the sizescale”, can be imagined as an abstract layered structure in which each layer is linguistically defined as infinite 3-dimensional space, and the relationship between the layers being “change in size” or “justification” (see fig. 1).
Infinite justification
“The unthinkable; thought!” meant, through two proofs, that there is more to reality than can be observed. This something should be a size which we cannot contemplate.
Infinitely many sizes i.e. denying there being a maximum and minimum size not only is a conclusion reached from “the unthinkable; thought!”; but also means the relationship between the layers (justification) repeats endlessly. Justification is the cause-effect logical nature of reality and this being the relationship between the sizes, as it is between every two known sizes, is a possible justification/cause for why there is size. The answer to the question: “what justifies (size-wise) this size?” retreating endlessly into the ever smaller/larger is a way for size itself to be justified. Why is there size? The answer continues endlessly into ever other sizes. This is the unknown part of reality revealed as existent and unknown by “the unthinkable; thought!” and also a possible reason for why there is size itself.
The framework that science fits into
All fields of science such as quantum physics, chemistry, biology, anatomy, ecology, geology, astronomy and cosmology each study a particular size. The object of study in quantum physics is within a particular range of size and when the study crosses over to larger levels of size the connection between the scientific disciplines is revealed. The uniting factor between all empirical sciences is the study of size. By inquiring into what objects exist at every possible size there is science.
By representing change in size as change along distance, each subunit (layer) of the infinite sizescale is shown as a shape able to contain an object of a particular size. Thus by arranging objects into a system of layers all empirical scientific disciplines are shown clearly and simultaneously, revealing a more overarching pattern of nature.
The sizescale is a way to show science; it is the framework that science fits into. Every new discovery – be it of a new size (such as string theory) or of a new object within a known size (such as a new species of snail in the rainforest) – adds detail to the pre-existing framework of sizescale.
——-/3.1——–
——–3.2———
The sizescale
What we know about the sizescale is called “the known sizescale” and all that can be known about the sizescale is called “the knowable sizescale”. One of the pieces of knowledge – a conclusion reached from the premise “the unthinkable; thought!” – is that there is more to the sizescale than can be known. This applies to any observers, as does “the unthinkable; thought!”.
This, in combination with the pattern of the sizescale i.e. justification (the relationship between the layers), gives rise to the question of whether the sizescale is infinite or the only alternative: whether a finite part is strictly “hidden”. It seems absurd for reality to hide a finite part of itself, hence it seems like the sizescale is infinite (and thus reaches its state of being well described by “the unthinkable; thought!” by being infinite).
Other than the question of whether reality is infinite or hid a finite piece of itself to satisfy the condition of “the unthinkable; thought!”, the relationship between the layers (justification) seems to point toward the same kind of mechanism for existence as how E=mc2 summoned energymass: infinite justification (the first cause in size goes on retreating into infinity).
——-/3.2———
——-3.3——-
You can have a feel for biology. But is not biology as a concept on the very top of the hierarchy of abstraction, the very summary and conclusion of many subtopics within the field of biology? Likewise the sizescale is at the very top of a hierarchy of abstraction and its subtopics are all fields of science.
Perhaps a general understanding of all fields of science is required to get a feel for the sizescale itself. Once that is accomplished and it is known that the known sizescale is but a subtopic of an infinite sizescale, the known sizescale can be used to get a feel for the entire sizescale. Like biology or any other field of science has the same feel as all other fields of science, and like the relationship between biology and cosmology has the same feel as the relationship  between quantum physics and biology, the known sizescale has the feel of the entire sizescale.
——-/3.3—–
——3.4——
It is quite emotionally awesome to know the sizescale is infinite. What in many a soul inspire awe is the grandness of the cosmos: hell, even a galaxy is too large not to be awe-inspiring. Now, if there is the infinitely large and not only is it not a repetition of the largest known infinitely many times: it is as different from the known as the fields of science are different from one another. Also, our layer/size cannot possibly be the only one having reproduction and as a result consciousness, given infinitely many layers.
Another emotional thing is what could metaphorically be called “the reasoning of god”: how all this is impossible to see or imagine (observe) and yet we know so incredibly much about it. We visualize the infinite sizescale only because we know reality cannot be imagined (the unthinkable; thought!).
—–/3.4——
——–4.1——-
Big bang cosmology
There need be no justification for why nothing can be. It is a literal custom to say “there was nothing” but the sentance contains a contradiction: “was” implies existence and nothing is the opposite of existence. Nothing is synonymous with non-existence. There need be no justification for why non-existence non-exists.
Laws of nature – avoiders of absurdity – such as “1 = 1” and other rules of mathematics, physics and geometry that are true independent of anything other than avoiding absurdity must be true in nothing/non-existence. Certain things must be true even about nothing/non-existence and these are laws of nature.
One law of nature is E=mc2, which is true at every size i.e. applies to every field of empirical science. It basically amounts to saying that energymass and spacetime are intertwined (into a single reality). Think about this: do you believe E=mc2 is a law of nature which is true regardless of anything else i.e. is true about nothing/non-existence? I do, and thus energymass is “mentioned” in non-existence which, again, does not need justification because it is an empty framework with its laws of nature.
If energymass is mentioned in nothingness but not summoned, reality has basically made small talk or empty chatter – it “talks about” energymass without there being any substance to it. If this sounds impossible, the only resolution is for energymass to be summoned (i.e. made into existence).
As soon as there is nothing/non-existence (which does not need justification) there are laws of nature (such as E=mc2) and energymass is mentioned, and as soon as energymass is mentioned energymass is summoned.
Hence the universe can only go an infinitely short amount of time (or no time) before nothingness summons energymass. Should then energymass be summoned somewhere first? It should be summoned in the infinitely small spaces because E=mc2 is mentioned in the infinitely small spaces. This means that energymass or the big bang starts infinitely dense, and because the laws of nature within our known sizescale (I´m mainly thinking about quantum physics) pushes dense things apart, the big bang starts as hot and dense, and then expands becoming less dense.
Infinitely dense energymass is summoned in infinite spacetime and splits apart as hot things are shown to do in empirical experiments.
The mechanism for re-creating the big bang is for the universe to become less dense until the density is zero i.e. the universe is empty. The universe accomplishes this by accelerating cosmic expansion and black holes.
——-/4.1——
——–4.2———-
If a density graph is drawn for the entire visible universe, it´s density begins as high and drops lower and lower. See fig. 2. If the density can reach zero i.e. if our three dimensions of space no longer contain any energymass, then what is the purpose of the law of nature “E=mc2” which must be true even in empty space.
It is hard to imagine that the surrounding objects – tables, people and chairs – would some day not be here. But if “here” is defined as spacetime – three dimensional space – then a black hole which curves space infinitely much can give the objects it swallows the status of not being availble to our three dimensions. A table is a two-dimensional surface and if something falls off from the table – falls vertically i.e. in the third dimension – then it is no longer considered to be on the table. If something falls into a black hole it is no longer in our three dimensions and thus no longer can be considered to exist in spacetime. So when all things have fallen into black holes there is in effect empty spacetime; the density of the visible universe has become zero.
As soon as there is zero density i.e. perfect emptiness – and mind you E=mc2 still remains true in it – energymass can be and is summoned. It begins as infinitely dense because it is summoned in the smallest spaces simultaneously – every nook and cranny of infinite emptiness is filled all at once. Hot things split apart and this is what we see as comic expansion in the large scale structure of the universe. Because the layer of the sizescale in which accelerating cosmic expansion happens is so large and thus so unfamiliar compared to our everyday sizes to deal with, one phenomenon which becomes apparent is acceleration of the expansion. This acceleration need not be because of energy (the so called “dark energy”) but is more accurately described as the nature of sizes so remote in the sizescale that we cannot expect our common sense calibrated to the human-size to be applied to the very largest known.
——-/4.2———-
——-4.3—–
You can imagine dividing space into tiny boxes – the tiniest cubes known to man. Some cubes will contain mass and others will not, some will be part of a larger shape making up a carbon atom and others will be part of a hydrogen atom. 13.7 billion years ago every box  had mass in it. Infinite space was maximally filled with energymass and then energymass split apart in infinite space. This is difficult to imagine for many reasons, such as: we cannot see infinity, and we cannot see older light than the oldest light (and hence the visible universes border is our limit of knowledge).
The large scale structure of the universe quite looks like what you would expect from mass, packed very dense long time ago, splitting apart in infinite nothingness.
——–/4.3——
——–4.4——
Why did, in nothing (empty space), mass and energy fill every smallest nook and cranny of all available space? Laws of nature such as energy cannot be created nor destroyed (the conservation of energy) can only apply if there is energymass in the first place, and cannot be applied to perfectly empty space. Thus, creation as the big bang seems to violate the law of conservation of energy but in perfectly empty nothingness it does not matter if this law is violated as long as the creation happens in and is intrinsically tied to and does not overreach the extent to which it exists. Spacetime is intrinsically part of energymass i.e. energymass does not exist independent of spacetime (as seen in E=mc2), hence spacetime can summon energymass as long as the nature of energymass is such that it makes sense for it to exist, and for such sensical existence spacetime need be tied to energymass.
Another way of saying it is existence in non-existence; one in zero. The two are one and the tieing together is witnessed in E=mc2.
Another requirement, other than the limits of existence being tied to and set by spacetime, is that the summoning must happen equally everywhere. Thus, because the sizescale reaches to infinitely small size, the space between two arbitrarily chosen points is infinitely small (this is the concept of the derivative). In the infinitely small space E=mc2 is “first” true and there energymass is first summoned – both because energymass must be summoned as soon as there is nothing, because Einsteinian theory of relativity claims every point in space to be equal to every other (there is no center of the universe), and because if energymass is infinitely small – if there had been empty space between two energymasses – this space can be considered infinitely large from the point of view of the infinitely small.
——-/4.4——
———4.5—–
What is needed for there to be humans? Two phenomena are provided for by an infinite sizescale: the infinitely large and the infinitely small. Everyone agrees that in order to explain a human being one ought to explain the organs, and then the cells that the organs are part of, and further down the sizescale we go. Similarily a human cannot exist without a planet to be on, and a planet cannot exist without a solar system, and further up the sizescale we go. The infinite sizescale is one of the aspects needed for explaining humans.
Another aspect is energymass or existence itself. Why something rather than nothing? Because nothing – which does not prompt the question: “why does nothing exist?” (because it doesn´t “exist”) has the laws of nature which include E=mc2; because in nothing existence is allowed. If existence existed in something other than nothing that would be absurd; impossible. Existence exists as an infinite sizescale of one in zero (energymass in spacetime).
These two aspect – “one in zero” and an infinite sizescale – are what is needed to explain humans and indeed the known sizescale. All additional detail to this framework is just that: detail. Why the, seemingly finely tuned to support human life, detail that we find in our known sizescale? Because in parts of the sizescale that don´t allow life the detail is not observed/found because there is no observer within those sizes.
Because the sizescale is infinite toward the large, our layer is indeed infinitely large. Though the visible universe has its limits due to the finite speed of light, the entire universe – because the entire sizescale is infinite – is infinite. Hence there are infinitely many planets with intelligent life, just like earth – infinitely many within our layer i.e. all of these planets are approximately earth-sized. Remind you: each layer is defined as infinite 3-dimensional space.
Such a conscious layer containing infinitely much life, can be considered just a single layer i.e. a small range of size in which conscious life can exist. The sizescale being infinite there must be infinitely many conscious layers each being infinite 3-dimensional space and sustaining infinitely many consciousnesses.
Interestingly, if each conscious layer (only one of which (the human size) is known to us) is marked in an infinite sizescale, the visualization of this is like if you would mark every thousandth number on an infinite numberline. Showing more and more numbers out of infinity, the shown markings increase (see fig. 3). The infinite sizescale is full of life-sustaining sizes.
——–/4.5—–
——–4.6——-
——-/4.6——-
——-5.1——
The conscious size
The conscious sizes are infinitely many
Consciousness – basically the brain – is found at a certain layer/size of the sizescale. It is for example not found at the level of molecule – there is no way for a single molecule to exhibit anything like consciousness. The fact that we don´t find humans the size of planets shows that there is a unique conscious size. What seems to be needed for consciousness is a shape of mass that can assemble surrounding mass into a similar shape, thus giving rise to reproduction and mutation.
If the sizescale is infinite then reproduction and evolution should appear infinitely many times elsewhere in the sizescale; in levels of the sizescale other than the sizescale known to humans. Like the decimals of pi in which any sequence such as the sequence “000123456789000” repeats infinitely many times, the sizescale has consciousness infinitely many times. The sizescale being infinite, there must be infinitely many layers (outside our known sizescale) which exhibit consciousness.
——-/5.1———
——-5.2……..
The conscious size
The only conscious size known to man is our size – very roughly between a planet and a cell in size. It arose because of rules of evolution: reproduction, survival of the fittest and mutation. The two latter rules seem to be consequences of the first: it is difficult to imagine reproduction when there is no mutation (every offspring is a perfect copy) or to imagine the best adapted forms not to more often be the origins for further generations. It seems like whenever, in the entire infinite sizescale, there is reproduction then there is a good possibility for there to be consciousness. If the layer in which reproduction happens allows for the creation of brains, there probably is the possibility for abstract language and science, reasoning and the essence of this book.
There must be infinitely many conscious layers, only one of which is in the known (and probably knowable) sizescale.
——-/5.2——–
——-5.3——–
Just because we know of one conscious layer there probably are many in an infinite number of layers. Many assume there is life on other planets because of the probablity due to billions of stars in billions of galaxies, similarily one might assume there to not only be consciousness on planets (i.e. in our approximate size) but also beyond our knowable sizescale.
For example, if we name quantum physics “layer one”, humans “layer five” and the visible universe “layer ten”, then an infinite sizescale means there might be life between layers 83920 and 83930.
What is true about these observers? Whether they know it or not, or whether they can know it or not, their nature of being separate observers disables them for seeing reality as it is (“the unthinkable; thought!”). If they know this, they will know that their knowable sizescale does not constitute an observation of reality and thus there is more to the sizescale than can be observed. Thus they might ponder about what we humans are thinking and thus, because we ponder about what they are thinking, all consciousnesses might be in the same boat; knowing the same knowledge.
——–/5.3——-
——–5.4——
Perhaps you´ve imagined the sizescale as a sizescale of energymass. But because of the intertwining of energymass with spacetime – because every size of energymass is tied to the same size of spacetime – the sizescale is both of energymass and spacetime. There is a spacetime sizescale and an energymass sizescale, both are intertwined with one another.
This, by the way, explains why many scientific concepts come as both an energymass-description and a spacetime-description. For example gravity was originally a force between two masses (the Newtonian energymass-description), with the focus being on energymass. Then Einstein described the same phenomenon with a focus on spacetime – gravity is a curvature of space and masses passively follow this curvature of space. Both descriptions are right, and the reason we have both an energymass description and a spacetime description is because the sizescale is energymassspacetime: on each layer of the sizescale we deal with both energymass and spacetime and thus can describe every phenomenon from these two points of view.
Another example is the wave-particle-dualism of quantum physics: we find quarks (and electrons, etc.) so unintuitive and impossible to imagine because we have both a particle-description for them and a spacetime-description. For example the brightness of light is represented as the number of photons and the amplitude of the wave. Color is the energy(mass) of a particle and the wavelength (distance) in a wave. In the spacetime description we consider distance (space) such as amplitude and wavelength, and in the energymass description we consider energy and number of masses.
——–/5.4——
——-6.1—–
Dark energy, dark matter
The confusion in contemporary scientific discourse regarding dark matter and dark energy can easily be solved using the sizescale. The dark matter and dark energy problems arise because we don´t realize the sizescale is infinite i.e. change happens between the different sizes. We expect gravity to work the same in a huge system as in a relatively small system – the problems arise when we try to apply our model of gravity in a solar system to an entire galaxy or to the entire cosmos. Realizing these systems are of different size or in different layers of the sizescale, we adapt to describing them using other equations than those applicable to much smaller sizes.
In the context of an infinite sizescale, expecting a galaxy to be like a solar system is like booking an appointment for a cancerous cell to a psychologist because we expect a small system (a cell) to be like a human – “maybe it will stop feeding and growing with the right psychotherapy”.
——-/6.1—-
——-6.2—–
If the sizescale would have been a common and accepted concept in the minds of the majority, there would not have been – what i see as – the need to make layers of the sizescale such as galaxies i.e. huge sizes conform to our expectations. It is, in my opinion, arrogant to utilize concepts such as dark matter and dark energy because it requires us to add unseen mass to galaxies (and even more ridiculously: the majority of a galaxy must be such dark matter), rather than accepting the galaxy as it is because it is on another layer of the sizescale. The problem is of applying an existing world-view dominated by our layer of the sizescale (the solar system to human size) to layers much different.
We´ve already had experience of this in quantum physics, in which a classical world view of a clear distinction between particle and wave apply. The reason quantum physics is so different compared to anything found at the human sizes, is precisely because quantum physics is the study of a layer far removed from our human layer. A galaxy is similarily far removed from our human layer and thus we cannot apply classical beliefs on it. In fact, a galaxy SHOULD be different because of its very different size. This is the nature of the sizescale: the reason one layer can justify another is because the layers are different from one another.
——-/6.2——
——6.3—–
Some think the Higgs-particle is the first cause of mass (existence) itself, meaning the entire infinite sizescale begins at quantum physics. Since humans are closer to quantum physics than the infinitely large, such a Higgs-believer could say that we are infinitely close (the derivative) to the smallest mass i.e. the beginning of the sizescale.
Another reason why it is absurd to suggest that there is a beginning to the sizescale is that a finite sizescale (with truly a maximum and a minimum size) has a center layer; a medium size. This situation of being in a finite sizescale would mean that some masses – the very largest and very smallest – are not justified by larger and smaller masses respectively. The pattern of justification (the relationship between any two layers) is noticed between any two known sizes, and the difference between any two sizes is the smallest known size. How many times can the smallest known size be multiplied to go from the smallest known size to the largest known size? This many times the pattern of justification is noticed, making it empirically seem like a law of nature because of its consistency. If this law of nature would be violated at the very largest and smallest by there not being anything larger and smaller respectively, it would be like gravity being violated in only two spots in the entire visible universe.
Another reason for not thinking that there is a beginning of mass i.e. smallest mass, is that it makes infinite justification impossible. The only known causal mechanism explaining why there is size (and thus humans) would be rendered invalid. We´d be left in the awkward world view of the smallest mass not having a reason to exist because what justifies/explains all known masses is ever smaller masses.
A similar historical situation to the one we are in now regarding the infinity/finity of the sizescale, is when we wondered whether there is a center of space or whether relativity is valid. It turned out that every point in space is equal to every other; every point is the center and no point is the center. Likewise: there is no center size; there is no smallest and largest size and thus no average between them. Much like we seemingly find ourselves in the middle of the visible universe, we are in the middle of the known sizescale (as large compared to the smallest known as we are small compared to the largest known). That a sizescale has a center (middle layer) is an illusion caused by our finite knowledge of the infinite sizescale, just like our seemingly middle poisition in the visible universe is caused by our finite knowledge of the entire infinite universe.
——/6.3—–
—-interlude—
———————————————————————————————————
—-/interlude—
——————-
The mind evolved during time, hence every function (collection of cells which processes information) can be said to have a timestamp. Placing the functions along a timeline from first evolved to most recently evolved reveals all functions of the mind. The first evolved functions would be examples like an activation of an avoidance movement when the temperature is too high (lizards do this). A function evolved somewhat in the middle of the history of the mind would be mammalian caretaking behaviours towards offspring (mama cat gets distressed if her offspring yelp).
The cortex i.e. the seat of all things uniquely human such as language, art, culture, mathematics etc. is the most recently evolved part of the brain. It is highly adaptable; for example written language arose in such recent history that our brains cannot have evolved to handle written language, and we are not born with writing skills but must learn them. This shows that the cortex is highly flexible. But just like the other functions that (the much longer evolutionary) history created, the cortex learns one function after another and can thus be placed on the same timeline of functions. An example of a most recently evolved function is thus that when a pencil and a paper are placed in front of you and you are told to write, you accomplish writing.
You contain both an avoidance behavior due to too hot temperature, and a writing behavior due to learnt cues. Both can be placed on the same timeline and a line can be drawn between genetically hard-wired functions and learnt functions during your lifetime.
Thus we get a finite (rather than infinite like the sizescale) layered structure where each layer is a function. Another difference compared to the sizescale is that this mind representation has distinct layers because functions evolved in distinct steps (while the sizescale is continuous).
Input comes from the senses into the mind, is processed in the mind and the output is presented in the “output area”.
Identity
People can choose between six different phenomena as to which to identify with. I will present examples for each of the six:
1 – the output: You can be identified with the output of the mind. The output of the mind is thought or as I like to call it: “conceptuo-emotional experience” (conceptual, emotional experience). The output of the mind changes from moment to moment, thus being identified with this fleeting output should mean that you are different every time the content of the output area i.e. your thinking or experience changes.
2 – evolutionary functions: You can set your identity as the timeline of functions called the mind. It produces the content of the output area. Looking at each function in isolation you would find them similar to software code: doing basic biologically hard-wired repetative tasks on input and then generating output.
3 – the output area: The output of the mind can only be presented in something akin to a RAM-memory in a computer: there must be a physical structure in the brain in which the output is. This structure need not be anatomically distinct and so can be spread out over the entire brain. If you identify as that which underlies the thoughts; that which allows and in which the thoughts appear, then you´ve identified as the output area.
The output area being a physical structure, you can zoom in into it just like you can on a computer´s memory. Though it is tempting to identify as the output area and thus be the witnessing presence allowing the fleeting experiences, if you zoom in on the physical structure of the output area you find cells and atoms. The output area is a biological physical conglomeration of atoms.
4 – the conscious size: The output area being a rather simple biological structure, it should not be uncommon and obviously is not on earth. Because space is infinite there must be infinitely many output areas; the output area is a common physical structure at out layer of the sizescale i.e. our size. You won´t find an output area the size of a planet nor the size of a molecule. Because the brain-sized layer of the sizescale is defined as infinite 3-dimensional space, it manifests infinitely many output areas. Manifesting output areas is a feature of the size itself. Thus you might not identify with your particular biological structure but instead the structure itself. A thought experiment might reveal my point: imagine the output area being a very simple structure like an abstract triangle. Notice the distinction between identifying as a particular triangle (such as the one in Sweden (particular location) at 2 am (particular time)), and a more general identity such as any identical copy of the triangle or triangleness in general. The output area as a physical structure exists in infinitely many locations; do you identify with one of these many identical structures?
5 – all size: if you´ve chosen to identify with the size itself and thus the consciousness that is a property of it everywhere and always, then recognize that the distinction between the layers of the sizescale are arbitrary. Size is infinitely small and thus the difference between two sizes is infinitely small; the sizescale is continuous. To identify as one size makes it hard not to identify as all size because all sizes are intimitely entangled.
6: the unthinkable thought: if you identify as all size of spacetime, and spacetime includes the E=mc2 equation, then energymass is involved and you´ve identified with energymasspacetime i.e. the unthinkable; thought!
Identity being output brings the problem of fleeting changing conceptuo-emotional experience: identity seems too fleeting and changing.
Identity being the output area brings the problem of the physical structure into which the ouput is fed is a simple biological structure.
Identity being the evolutionary functions sets identity as the producing factory of the unique thoughts that reveal your unique personality, but these functions are simple, cold and calculating like software code.
Identity being the conscious layer of the sizescale means infinite space always has my identity at every brain-sized location, but what distinguishing this size from other sizes?
Identity being all size: thus identity is the unthinkable; thought.
Numbers 4 and 5 (conscious layer and all size) focus on spacetime while the others (1,2,3,6) include energymass. Thus it is possible to set your identity as spacetime.
During a lifetime you hear the word “I” refer to all of the six different identities. All are valid defintions of “I”.
We have the ability to be any identity except number 1 (output), thus we can be the outside observers of output. Knowing that output many times comes from functions evolved to survive and reproduce in a brutal natural selection, we might not want to believe that our urge is the correct path to happiness even though the urge did lead our ancestors to survive and reproduce. By identifying with anything except number 1 (output), we do not get fooled when primitive functions urge us, for the sake of pleasure, to do something which we know will not even help us like it did our ancestors.
It is our cortex that makes us not completely instinctual animals, let´s use it to keep track of our identity to see when it shifts to output. If identity stays completely at output then we are bound to pursue every conceptuo-emotional experience or urge with full conviction. We remove identity from the output area and focus it solely on the output/urge, which then becomes our whole world.
When thinking arose, quickly there needed to be disidentification from thought in order for madness not to spread.
Output, evol function and output area are energymass: located, impermanent, changing.
Conscious layer, all size, the unthinkable thought: non-locational, eternal, allowing, unchanging.
—-
Identity in this context only exists when you have your glasses off: take a closer look and what you thought was identity was something else.
—-/b—–
What is the observer (also called consciousness or the self)? I will present several options:
The output
I am the fleeting thoughts that come and go throughout the day, that is to say I am the output of the brain.
The evolutionary functions
I am the evolved functions accomplished by assemblies of cells, which process input turning it into output. For example a long time ago we evolved the function that produces fear when the input is the sensation of a snake. So many of our ancestors died because of snake bites that in a certain generation of our species one of us was afraid of snakes, curtesy of a random mutation. This “fear the snake”-gene was an evolutionary benefit and thus many generations later everyone had it. Hence the output/thought can be fear because we see a snake, due to the evolutionary functions we might define ourselves as.
The old brain i.e. the first functions to evolve are this kind of rigid and non-alterable functions. The cortex (the new brain) must be trained during an individuals lifetime so that, for example, one of its functions is to read and write.
Evolution gave us a giant cortex so that it could be rewired during an individual´s lifetime. Thus we could learn by ourselves and from our parents and peers. The difference between the cortex and the old more rigid functions is that the cortex´s functions change during a lifetime. Evolution started out with rigid functions hard-coded in DNA, then let us have a blank sheet cortex which creates functions from past experience and prediction.
If we were to draw a timeline on which we put every function in the same order as it arose in:
the old brain´s functions would be at the start of the timeline,
the cortex´s functions would cover about two thirds of the timeline.
Generally, the old brain´s functions evolved during evolutionary time and the cortex´s functions evolved during a lifetime.
—
The output area (memory)
The output from the evolutionary functions must be stored in some kind of memory. The memory or output area into which output from the evolutionary functions is fed, is the consciousness in which thoughts and experience unfolds.
The conscious size
The output area is simply a physical biological structure within the brain and if you would zoom in on it (go lower in the sizescale) you´d find that it´s made of atoms. Just like a computer´s memory is able to store any sequence of numbers that fits onto it, I expect the brain´s memory to have a simple structure just like a computer´s memory has.
If I define myself as this output area/memory, it doesn´t seem to be unique for two reasons: without thought there is nothing that lets me distinguish my output area or consciousness from yours (just like two computer memories are identical when they just left the factory), and the simple physical structure of the output area makes it hard for me to identify with mine because yours – an equal physical structure – also exists.
Space is infinite and thus these physical structures exist in every direction, even infinitely far away: the are infinitely many output areas in the universe. More specifically, there is no output area the size of a planet nor the size of a single cell, thus there is a conscious size (approximately the size of a human brain) in which every known consciousness exists. An inherent property in the conscious size is to manifest output areas, as it does 7 billion times on earth. If I identify myself as the conscious size i.e. the size in which the output area exists, then I am everywhere (but brain-sized) and eternal.
I can define myself as the layer in the sizescale in which the non-unique cortical memory structure resides.
Here is a thought experiment: antropomorphize a planet and ask it: “what do you identify yourself as?” Do you expect the answer to be its unique characteristics, details about its particular atmosphere, its unique history, etc. or do you expect an answer that shows familiarity with all planets in general i.e. the planet-layer of the sizescale?
If you ask me as a geologist, I´d say Mars ought to acknowledge its uniqueness but identify with being a planet among infinitely many others all studied by geologists (and not studied by biologists or cosmologists i.e. students of other layers of the sizescale). Mars´ identity is planet in general i.e. the planet layer of the sizescale. Among the infinitely many layers of the sizescale only one of which contains planets, it would be silly for Mars to say “I am that red dust cloud that just started at my north pole, and that crater created a million years ago, and…” and a list of unique details. We all know Mars as a planet and would say we know its identity, even though we don´t know even most of all possible unique details that can be listed about Mars.
—
If you can say you are a particular size, and each layer or size of the sizescale is defined as infinite 3-dimensional space, and if your size is deeply interconnected with the larger and smaller in the bond of justification (the relationship between the layers), then should you not identify as all size rather than just one size?
The conscious size could not exist without the other sizes.
Because size is a property of emptiness i.e. if there were nothing there´d still be size, is it reasonable to select and identify as one size (or “part”) out of infinite emptiness. Emptiness comes as an infinite spacetime-sizescale: is it reasonable to identify as one of its layers? Can distinctions be made in nothingness?
—–
If you´ve identified with nothingness which comes as an infinite spacetime-sizescale, in which E=mc
2
is true and energymass is summoned, then you have identified as energymasspacetime and the unthinkable thought.
—–/
Ending notes
One way to teach this science is to do it the way that if convinces everybody: you begin with Descartes’ certain truth (thought exists; thinker exists) and then go on to say “there is separation”, then you ask what the opposite of separation is and have the unthinkable thought – from that arises the infinite sizescale, and somewhere in such a fractal-like sizescale there was evolution. This all draws the scientific diagram which they draw on other planets.
This scientific theory/world-view is much like rap: words/ideas rhyme/connect with one another, and in between them you add some other words to create a coherent sentence/understanding. Thus you can begin anywhere and make your way to everywhere else.
Copyright Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
19900112-4917
Sweden
0769284838
Author
yonis
Posted on
August 22, 2016
August 22, 2016
Leave a comment
on book 22 8 2016
Search for:
Search
Recent Posts
book 22 8 2016
Recent Comments
Archives
August 2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.org
sizescale
Proudly powered by WordPress

Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen – Warrior of Boredom
Skip to content
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Warrior of Boredom
Women
Women get critized for being too promiscuous (having too many resource-givers to their children), for being with one boyfriend (because science shows they’re more likely to get an orgamsm when cheating because that cheating gives both better genetics (if that is the case) and more resource-givers to her offspring), and for cheating on her boyfriend sometimes (because the boyfriend would be very upset (patriarchy) if found out his child might not be his).
Author
yonis
Posted on
30/11/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Women
Latest version of my book
Warrior of Boredom
The title of this book refers to that it is hard to get through this book. The reason why this new science (that I present in this book) hasn’t been discovered until I did is because it’s depressing, anxiety-giving and BORING. But the question is: does everyone agree on it? If they do, that changes the Israel-Palestine-conflict where the parties of God are vetoing “the holy land”. Religion is the biggest cause for hate in the world, as Hitchens said. My book defeats religion – it’s a minimalist theory that works completely – a theory of Everything: existence (why there is size itself), evolution – even thoughts on the methodology for doing politics.
Philosophy = honor,
but anxiety/depression and boredom. Religion = no honor,
but less anxiety/depression and less boredom.
The big picture, accounting of everything, conflicts with certain positive-thinking brain-tricks and with our bias toward ignoring some negative/depressing aspects of nature.
The first part of this book will be a more detailed discourse about the following paragraph:
Descartes proved that there is distinction (between thinker and thought) - what's the opposite of distinction: "that of which all is part" (Reality). Since we are stuck in Descarte's thinker and thought-realm we can't see Reality, nor can "whatever" not represent it, meaning that there's more to it than can be contemplated/represented. Since all objects we know of fit in a size-time-diagram, this argument must mean that there is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram - and this in turn leads us to an existential theory (a theory about why there is size in the first place).
I realize that’s too fast of a paragraph to convince everyone and thus I want to convince the readers of this book to be warrios or boredom and see all my arguments.
Lecture 1
Descartes
One of the aims of this course is to get EVERYONE to agree so that they have the same associations between scientific concepts.
There is no other proper way to accomplish this goal than by starting with certain truth, which was found by Descartes in the 1600s. He lived in a time where they believed in demons, Gods etc. so he postulated a thought experiment where he assumed an almighty demon was fooling him in everything he could be fooled in: what would remain as certain truth – what could he not be fooled in?
If he was being fooled, where would still be a “he” (or self) there to be fooled, meaning that the self certainly exists. A self is necessary for a self to be fooled.
Descartes had thus concluded his own existence.
Being fooled is thinking – thus thought exists. “There is thought” Descartes concluded as certain truth. The word “fooling” represents a thought-process.
Descartes found the starting-position for any inquiry about truth: we can know certainly that thinker and thought exists.
Distinction exists (a logical conclusion from the above)
Looking at what we´ve found as certain truth so far “from above” (meta), we can take the next logical step – adding a third factoid to our 2-statement (A and B above) starting position: that there is distinction (
between
thinker and thought). The fact that thinker and thought are two separate entities concluded to be certain truth
s
through two
different
logical pathway
s
lets us conclude that “distinction exists”
. There are what Chinese philosophy calls “the ten thousand things” (referring to the world) – there are at least two (three if we include “distinction” as th
e third thing) certain entities, and empirically we know there are “ten thousand things” (not taking the number 10 000 literally but just referring to multiplicity).
First universal diagram
We can draw the thinker and thought and distinction between them as two dots with a line between them on a piece of paper (fig. 1).
Now we have something all religions agree on
– we´ve drawn up ideas and associations between them. Everyone ought to have the same associations (explanatory thoughts) between the concepts we´ve looked at so far.
We have, if you will – in figure 1 – a universal diagram.
Reality
We have the capability to conglomerate many separate entities under the rubric of a single category. If we use this capability to collect the “ten thousand things” (distinct entities) we´ve found so far into a single thing, we ought to give that thing a word/name. Its definition can be “that of which all is part” and “the opposite of separation/distinction”. I will use the word Reality to refer to this all-encompassing thing.
In lecture 2 I will present three proofs for that “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, but for now we can draw (adding to figure 1) a dot with a cross over it – the cross to symbolize that the dot itself is a false representation of Reality because we (the observer/self/thinker) should be part of that dot. See fig 2.
Thinking about what we´ve got so far
Thinking about what we´ve got so far (fig. 2) it’s a bundle of associations which make universal inter-religious (all religions agree on it) knowledge with both words and pictures.
In the next lecture I present why the line in fig 2 (see fig 3) represents the opposition/antagonism/disagreement/contraposition/divergence/variance between the two sides of the paper; between “thinker and thought” on one side of the paper and “Reality (that of which all is part; the opposite of separation)” on the other side of the paper.
Worth noting now is that the left side of the paper represents separation/distinction whilst the right side of the paper represents the opposite of separation/distinction – both are legitimate ideas: thinker and thought – and distinction – is certain truth based on Descartes and we all know which idea we refer to when talking about the all-encompassing [that of which all is part] Reality.
In the next lecture we will talk about why the line in fig. 3 makes it so that we can´t see Reality – I will present three proofs like in a crime case, and we will talk about what we can see if we can´t see Reality.
Making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far
1
See fig. 1 again: it´s our starting-point and the thinking that occurs in it happens in Descartes “realm of mind”; it is the mind´s realm (the left side of the paper) in which the thinking happens, and one thing we talk about is Reality on the right side of the paper in fig 3. Since the line in fig. 3 represents both the legitimacy of the ideas on both sides of the paper, and simultaneously the opposition between separation/distinction (on the left side of the paper) and [the opposite of separation/distinction] on the right side of the paper. That opposition is important and I will show its significance in lecture 2.
2
Starting from Descartes realm (of if you will: assuming that all we know is what we know for certain), we have the capability to state that there is a single Reality of which all is part – so even though we see separation we must grant that that separation (all entities) fits into a category we call Reality. There is a unifying whole even though the human mind (Descartes realm) is limited in its ways when it tries to contemplate Reality.
Not only is there the map-territory distinction (which will be presented as one out of three proofs in lecture 2), but there is also a more fundamental opposition between distinction and its opposite (there is a more fundamental opposition between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3). Not only are we stuck in the map-territory-distinction-realm but we also can conclude that no representation (regardless of the mind) is equal to Reality (on a more fundamental level than the map-territory-problem).
Representation is done in the brain using neurons and in a computer using electrons, but there is no reason why the most distant atom or quark couldn´t be proposed to be a symbol for [that of which all is part] – and even in that brainless scenario we will see in lecture 2 that “that of which all is part cannot be represented”. The map-territory-distinction is just proof/evidence number two in lecture 2 (for that we cannot see Reality and thus, since we do see/represent something, there must be more to Reality than can be represented i.e. the size-time-diagram (presented in lecture
2) is infinite along both axes.
Proof 3 in lecture 2 removes the brain from the equation and still proves that there is more to Reality than can be seen/represented/symbolized (using any means/any method – even without a brain), and since some representation is obviously (since we know that there are minds) possible, there must be more than can be represented/contemplated i.e. the size-axis is infinite and the time-axis is infinite in that two-axis diagram.
3
Both sides of the paper in fig. 3 are legitimate ideas. But still they are opposites (separation on one side and the opposite of separation on the other side). How can two derived-from-logic sides of the paper be opposites but still both be legitimate?
Usually opposition – like between Democrats and Republicans – means that one is right and the other is wrong; they can´t both simultaneously be right: you can´t meaningfully vote for both parties at the same time.
The case is different between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3: both sides are right and they are opposites.
There is a single Reality and there is multiplicity in distinction.
What does this mean? That there is more to the size-time-diagram than anything could represent – any representation fails (you can think of some
examples/suggestions for how to represent [that of which all is part]/[the opposite of separation]) – and thus the axes on the size-time-diagram are infinite. This is a hither to unpresented fact in science – it is new science: some of the best scientists ignorantly believe that the size-range is limited/finite.
4
We have quite a few associations and symbols in fig. 3 which must be agreed upon, and here I´m using the word “must” in the sense that “by the rules of logic X must be true”. Other civilizations throughout the infinitely many galaxies there are use the exact same ideas (but in a different language) and have the same associations between them (that there are infinitely many galaxies is derived from that the size-axis in the size-time-diagram is infinite). There is distinction as the third truth to be added to Descartes two fundamental truths (thinker and thought exist), and all that is opposed to (on the other side of the paper in fig. 3) to the all-encompassing Reality which is defined using at least two definitions: that of which all is part and the opposite of separation.
I´m tri-lingual but I write the same ideas and associate them in the same ways no matter which language I write in – its universal science beginning from certain truth. On other planets that have civilizations my writings in this book ought to match up quite near to the writings creating the same lecture series based on universal science that I´m creating
– “alien”/exo-planet
lecture series proceed, beginning from certain fact, through logical steps as I do.
5
[Thinker and thought] (certain truth) and thus distinction/separation are associated through negation/opposition to the right side of the paper in figure 3: Reality. The left side is not the right side just like separation is not its opposites. Both being legitimate ideas, though, connects them in the way that thinker and thought (and all other distinct entities) are in the category Reality.
Even though Reality and distinction are opposites, distinction dwells in (as a sub-entity within the category) Reality.
The associations between the left and right sides of the paper in figure 3 are both united through the notion “opposition” and through the notion that distinction is inherent in Reality (Reality being the opposite of distinction
because we have all-encompassing and its opposite: composite parts).
6
It is certainly true that all is part of a single Reality; but it is equally true that in every observation there is an observer and hence distinction (between thinker and thought). We see separate entities is as true as that the self that we are is not in front of us – but everything we see (thought/object) is in front of us.
That is evidence 1 in lecture 2 (not a proof, but a mere suggestion/evidence that [that of which all is part cannot be observed] and thus there is more to Reality than our concept of [infinitely much].
All we know about Reality has two properties: a size and a time. Size and time are two axes on a diagram, and thus all we know fits into the size-time-diagram (every object or location in space has a size and time).
There is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram because all suggested representors for Reality fail
(for three reasons taken up in lecture 2).
7
All
bundles of associations in this chapter “making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far”
are written in order to create some universal brain structures (universal because
science is the same everywhere (on all exo-planets), and their brains make the same associations too eventually). It´s not some random bundle of associations nor did I randomly present random ideas.
I assume the brain structure created by understanding this book is a replica of something derived from science; a replica of brain structures on the infinitely many other civilization-bearing planets. It´s a universal “ideology”, if you will.
Everyone has a possibility of sharing it in agreement – and future lectures will add a whole lot of complexity to it; agreement tends to build friendship so study is a way of bringing more peace to the world.
Once the full world-view is presented throughout this book, it´s a way of pacifying the world.
8
We have two brain-halves: one linguistic and one visual. So far we´ve both drawn pictorial representations and connected words – both brain-halves have been working. The connections across corpus collosum (which sits between the brain-halves and connects them) that connect a linguistic narrative/explanation to the pictorial representations are one day found in all humans thanks to science. Our brains are becoming more as science has a propensity to make them be.
This course itself, since it begins with certain truths and builds upon it logically, is a universal course (to the best of my ability).
The brain cells that constitute the negation (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 3) or opposition are not the same kind of cells (they are inhibitory neurons) that connect thinker with though as both being certain truths (but the thinker is not the thought and thus has inhibitory cells making that brain-structure work too
(what you are is not in front of you;
what you are is not visible).
Since both Reality and [what you are]/self/observer/thinker are invisible the brain might erroneously and spontaneously try to associate them, so a brain-structure is needed to inhibit that association (and replace it with a more complex explanation). That spontaneous but erroneous association is something all thinking animals throughout the universe evolved to do, and the inhibition of it through culture/civilizing/science is universally available within complex enough civilizations throughout the universe.
As you can see the brain structures responsible for doing this thing are quite complex, but also universal and thus accessible to all humans, and predictably will someday be in all humans (fostering agreement, thus friendship, thus peace).
Lecture 2
Perceive, apprehend, notice are synonyms for our representing ability, but I will use the word “see” or “observe” to refer to all of these. The goal of this lecture is to prove the statement “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, Reality being defined as “that of which all is part”. In other words: we cannot see Reality, and thus there is more to Reality than even can be contemplated (i.e. infinitely much).
I will build this lecture like a criminal court case: I will present three proofs for that we cannot see Reality i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated i.e. (since we can contemplate anything (right or wrong)) Reality is infinite.
Since anything/everything we know about Reality has some size and time, it fits into a size-time-diagram. See fig. 4.
In fig. 4 size is represented along the vertical axis and time along the horizontal axis. The objects humans see in everyday life (from the horizon to a single cell as one “pixel” in our visual field) are marked in “the human range”.
See fig 5.
In fig. 5 I´ve drawn the same diagram as in fig. 4 but this time with infinity-symbols in each corner of the squareical size-time-diagram. Two infinite axes become a square.
Proof number 3 in our “court case” for proving that the size-time-diagram (Reality) is infinite has us imagine the unobservable separatenessless Reality and ask whether there is a maximum or minimum size to/in it (a maximum/minimum being separateness while we are talking about the opposite of separation). This is again to confirm that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes.
The line we drew in fig. 4 was for separating the two sides of the paper; opposing “thinker and thought” (distinction) with its opposite: one all-encompassing non-distinction Reality. That opposition-line is what this lecture is about since it proves that the two sides of the paper are
separate/opposing realms and we are stuck in one realm as long as we are observers (because observation is separation/distinction (thinker and thought)).
Proving that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes is new science because it poses the question: what happened before the Big Bang (14 billion years ago), and it presents one pillar of our existential theory: that each size is the reason for each next and previous size, and the size axis is infinite, meaning the “beginning” of the relationship between sizes keeps retreating into infinity the more we contemplate the range of the size axis.
When I presented fig. 4 for the first time I drew a cross over the dot symbolizing Reality for the plain reason that we (as observers) should be part of that dot, and by the very nature of us being separate (and the dot representing the opposite of separation) we should draw a cross over it symbolizing that we cannot see it.
The main proof though is that even if all observers were dead there´d still be, inherent and fundamental in nature, the opposition between distinction and distinction´s opposite (the two sides of the paper in fig. 4). The line is an opposition-line and it is more fundamental than being dependent on humans/observers – it refers to all representation whether it’s using/including humans or not. I am, in other words, not talking about the map-territory distinction (which symbolizes that humans have mental maps and not the real world per se; like Kant said: we have “the thing” and not “the thing itself”). Proof 2 – the opposition-line between the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 – is not subjective: it is true that we live with the map-territory-distinction but even if I died there´d still be separate things (chairs separate from cups), that kind of separation is not dependent on me/observers. Simultaneously the flipside of the coin (the other side of the paper in fig. 4) is true too: all is one single Reality (the opposite of separation). Proof 2, in other words, should not be interpreted as signifying the map-territory distinction (human subjectivity) but instead a fundamental opposition in the universe.
If we do not see Reality, then what do we see? Everything we see fits into the size-time-diagram, and since the opposition-line in fig. 4 shows that there is a fundamental rule that states, in 3 different proofs, that Reality is infinite / there is more than can even be contemplated / there is more than even non-subjective representation can represent.
Proof number 1 is really weaker than a “proof” – it´s more like evidence. It wouldn´t hold up in a court but it is a way of stating what the other proofs too point towards. Proof 1 is what we saw when presenting figure 4: any dot representing Reality is an incorrect representation because the observer should be part of the object – the thinker should be part of the thought. It denies Cartesian separation and thus is untrue, meaning that anything we draw on the right side of the paper in fig. 4 is incorrect.
We can contemplate anything: we can speculate about what´s smaller than quantum physics, or even what´s smaller than that, etc. into infinity. We are probably wrong, but any contemplation/representation counts as a contemplation – and since we know that, whether right or wrong as our contemplations may be, there is more to Reality than can be contemplated, it follows that there must be infinitely much to Reality. Since all we know about Reality fits into a size-time-diagram, the minimalist approach is to state that it´s the size-time-diagram that is infinite.
This warrants two new words: the knowable/known size-range and the infinite size-range. The knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range. Since Einstein unified space (size) and time, one cannot be infinite without the other one being the same. Science today doesn´t know whether there was a “before” to the Big Bang or not (whether time was created at the Big Bang), but now we know that the Big Bang is just an event on an infinite time axis. In a future lecture we will talk about how/why the Big Bang recreates (happens over and over).
We talked about universal diagrams (and universal brain-structures) in lecture 1. The size-time-diagram is one major universal diagram. A lot of detail can be added to it because all fields of science fit into it. The infinity-symbols on each axis of the squareical diagram are drawn, based on science, on exo-planets with advanced enough civilizations.
This lecture is about proving that [that of which all is part] (the opposite of separation) i.e. Reality cannot be observed/represented, and that this fact is true irrespective of whether we are observers or dead, and applying this to the size-time-diagram (which gets its infinity-symbols into the squareical diagram).
Proof number 2 (the main proof) is the oppositional approach between Reality and distinction, and it is not subjective because Reality and Reality´s opposite exist even if we were dead. Proof number 3 is about imagining (even though no imagination is it) Reality as a big gray (because energymass is white and spacetime is black) solid, in which we know no observer should be (because observation is separation) – does it have separation i.e. a biggest and a smallest size? No, because such distinctions are not in the opposite of distinction (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 4).
I´ve mentioned universal associations in the brain / exo-planet science, so talking about the size-time-diagram we can add more universal notions to it: why did I draw upwards on the size axis as larger and downward as smaller? Why is the time-axis horizontally drawn instead of vertically? The diagram works even if we would define the vertical axis as time and the horizontal axis as size – so why do we draw size vertically and time horizontally? Is it universal i.e. on other planets or just a human convention like writing from left to right in English-speaking countries and right to left in Arabic-speaking countries?
Evolution has it so that during the history of science telescopes look upward and microscopes look downward. This would be the case on other planets too: they turn their heads upward to see the large and downward (onto a table) to see the small; the opposite can´t be true on any planet. Thus we get the size axis´ standard (of upward being larger) from evolution / the history of science. I use the word “standard” because it comes from evolution rather than being more fundamentally hard-wired into the universe such as the fact that the size-time-diagram is a square with infinity symbols. That the size-time-diagram is a square is not a standard – it is something stronger than that. The fact that we represent time on the vertical axis (and upward as larger) comes from a weaker source: tradition (even though that same tradition is true on all planets; evolution, in this regard, happens the same on all planets that end up with civilizations).
We thus have added standards or weak conventions (derived from history) in addition to having strong diagrams like the size-time-diagram being a square. The distinction between the two is made based on science and is thus made on exo-planets.
Scientists are looking for exo-planets that bear civilizations. If the size-range is infinite – as we´ve proven that it is – then each particular size (like the human range in fig. 5) is infinite too; if the largest is infinitely large then there is, considering the size of a human, an infinite distance in any direction that that human could find itself in. This makes civilizations on other planets a must, not an assumption. The known/knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range, and within the known size-range there is a range in which evolution occurs (between the smallest cells and the biggest organisms), and since we´ve proven that there are infinitely many objects within/of that size-range, then there must be infinitely many locations in which evolution occurs.
In the next lecture we will bind together the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 (distinction and distinction´s opposite; “thinker and thought” opposing Reality) with E=mc
2
(energymasspacetime) and with the infinity of the size-time axes, into a single existential theory which is a rival to “God created earth in 6 days…” The existential theory is a minimalist account for why there is a sizescale in the first place, and why there is something (energymass) rather than nothing (spacetime). It reminds me of this passage: “HITCHENS: In other words, as the great physicist Laplace said when he demonstrated his working model (his orrery, as it’s called) of the solar system to the emperor and Napoleon said, “Well I see there’s no God in this system,” and Laplace said, “Well, Your Majesty, it works without that assumption.””
In this chapter I´ve presented three proofs for that the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in it i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated; we do represent something but however we choose to represent (even representations that can be proposed as thought-experiments if we were dead) we do not represent Reality i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality. Are there any counter-arguments saying that the size-time-diagram is finite? I built this lecture like a court case and I´d like to hear the opposing side. There are no arguments that oppose what I´ve proven so far.
Lecture 3
E=mc
2
E=mc
2
as an equation is only used in relativistic scenarios such as very high speed or very high energy, but since speed is a continuum the equation is true at slower speeds. There is a difference between the equation being applicable (being needed while solving equations) and it being true; it is always true everywhere but it is not needed for equations except in special scenarios.
An example of the equation being true everywhere and always is this: nuclear power-plants turn mass (kilograms) into energy (joule), so that if you input 1 kg of uranium-mass you get out 99.9999 kg of waste products – some of the mass turned into energy which lights our light-bulbs. The atoms that lost some weight (that weight was converted into energy) are atoms just like other kinds of atoms, for example in autumn leaves. If you´d drop leaves into the core of the sun, the sun´s nuclear furnace would turn mass in the leaves into energy (light). Hence all objects are subject to the E=mc
2
-rule, which states that energy (E) equals mass (m). This warrants the word energymass because they are no longer two distinct things – they are but different manifestations of the same thing. In the brain
energymass should be a single idea whilst the concepts “energy and mass” refers to two different forms of a single idea.
Verbs and adjectives tend to refer to energy (shining, running, etc.) while nouns refer to mass (body, tree, etc.) E=mc
2
states that the two (verbs/adjectives and nouns) are together in a single equation. Although only applicable in relativistic scenarios (the role of relativism becomes close to zero in everyday human events, except that our light-bulbs shine because mass turns into energy and the sun can makes leaves into light), E=mc
2
is in a “philosophical” sense true everywhere and always just like Pythagoras’s theorem about triangles remains “philosophically true” even where there are no physical triangles. You wouldn´t say 1=1 is not true in empty space just because there are no objects there to count as “1”.
In addition to energymass being a single concept (and not two distinct ones), spacetime gets added into the mix by the c
2
-part of the equation. c is the speed of light (km/h) and thus a distance (space) over time – spacetime! Energymass (E=m) and spacetime (c
2
) should in the brain be represented by a single idea which we can call energymasspacetime. This harkens back to the previous lectures about Reality, which is a synonym for energymasspacetime. Einstein invented the equation E=mc
2
and thus unified in it energymass with spacetime – and synonyms for energymass are “existence” or “1” while synonyms for spacetime are “non-existence”, “emptiness”, “nothing” and “zero”. There is no more to be considered regarding Reality than energymasspacetime; energymasspacetime involves everything (energymass) and nothing (spacetime) so there is nothing more to be considered/added to Reality – Reality is energymasspacetime; everything is included into Reality once we have defined Reality as energymasspacetime.
The Existential Theory
Each culture seems to have a creation myth (such as genesis) – the creation of the cosmos/world/Reality is something humans have invented hypotheses for during millennia. The stories answer the question “why are we here?”
The true answer is unintuitive. First of all: why is there any particular size? What justifies, say, the size of a molecule? The answer is: the smaller and the larger (the rest of the size-range). Atoms justify a molecule and a molecule exhibits a place for atoms to live in: justifies atoms. Humans need an earth to dwell on (the earth is larger) and humans are made of cells (cells are smaller). Each size bears a relationship upon each other size – the smaller justify the larger and the larger justify the smaller. Since the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all four corners of the square (because of the proof where we had two sides of a paper), the size-range is infinite i.e. the pattern of justification between/amongst sizes continues into the infinitely large and infinitely small. What the ancients called “the first cause” keeps retreating into infinity size-wise the more we contemplate it. The size-range is like a fractal: you can keep zooming in or out infinitely much, and the question “why is there this particular object that I see” has its answer in the relationship between all the sizes: justification. Infinite justification is the reason why there is a size-range at all. But there is more that is needed for a full-fledged existential theory: two more factors play their roles.
Spacetime is emptier than we can imagine/represent it. We (and all representeurs) are energymass and thus are the opposite of spacetime. We could let a piece of empty space represent spacetime, but as soon as we use energymass (such as our brains) to do so, we´ve lost the truly empty nature of
spacetime: it is unimaginably empty. Any bundle of neurons, no matter how we wire it, is still the opposite of what they want to represent when they want to present us with spacetime. It is therefore useful to have two concepts for spacetime: (1) our simplest intuition of spacetime and (2) additional defining language explaining that spacetime is emptier than (1). This is how exoplanet civilizations would wire their brains regarding the concept “spacetime” too, just because it’s the most accurate science they can manage.
Just like energy and mass are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon, energymass and spacetime are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon. What does it mean for spacetime to be bundled together with (intertwined with) energymass? Everything exists as/in/because of nothing; 1 exists in 0; energymass and spacetime are together in the E=mc
2
-equation. Where could energymass/existence exist? In nothingness. Just like sizes justify one another, spacetime justifies energymass.
The last question that remains, after we have justification between sizes in an infinite size-range, and that all points in the size-time-diagram are made of energymasspacetime (and energymass is justified by it being in spacetime), is the objective fact that there both is a single Reality (the right side of the paper) and there´s its opposite: distinction (between, say, thinker and thought).
The existential theory builds on three “pillars”/fundamental ideas:
An infinite sizescale,
Energymasspacetime as in the equation E=mc
2
Distinction between distinction itself and distinction´s opposite (see fig. 1, 2, 3):
Between distinction (the left side of the paper, our 2 certain truths: I exist and there is thought) and Reality (the opposite of distinction; one Reality (not plural)) there is a line that demarcates distinction/opposition.
Putting it all into one phrase we might say: “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime with opposition between distinction and Oneness”. At its core it´s three ideas (infinite size-time-diagram, energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
), separation and intertwinedness (the two sides of the paper)). On exoplanets they would state their reason for their own existence using these three ideas too, because taken together they explain all that needs to be explained: first thing that comes to mind is that in the stated existential theory there must be a reproducing shape (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape; a DNA-strand) somewhere. If the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all three corners, then evolution ought to occur somewhere (and be made of energymass in spacetime, while being separate/distinct in a single intertwined Reality).
Most creation-myths have a quite simple (one-pillared) and mundane story: for example genesis just states that God created Reality (that of which all is part) in 6 days and rested on the 7
th
. The scientific rival to all such creation stories is a three-pillared theory – we can´t make it any simpler (we can´t make it one-pillared) and the same would be the case on exoplanets: they too can only break it down to three interconnected ideas/pillars/fundaments, so in thinking this way we share a common intellectual history with exoplanet civilizations advanced enough to figure out this existential theory.
On a test on this subject a question might be: “what are the three pillars of the existential theory?” – the question can´t be “what is the most important pillar in the existential theory?” All pillars are equally important but constitute as distinct ideas as E=mc
2
is from infinite size, or the separation-intertwinedness-opposition (fig. 3).
This three-pillared creation story – the sum of these three chapters – is built upon logic: it includes certain truths like “I think and I exist” (distinction/separation), its opposite (Reality for which we have three proofs for that it can´t be observed/seen/contemplated i.e. the size-time-diagram is infinite), E=mc
2
which unifies nothing/spacetime with existence/energymass, and the relationship between any two sizes (justification along the infinite size-range). Every one of these ideas relates very closely to Descartes´ certain truth, meaning we can be sure of the ideas themselves – and they together build up a minimalist existential theory which needs no further logic to explain everything there is.
Having an infinite size-range has a predictive quality to it too – it makes a prediction: there ought to be evolution (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar mass) somewhere in the diversity we see throughout even the known size-range.
Though as non-intuitive as the 3-pillar existential theory may be to our evolved brains who want a single conclusion, exoplanet civilizations have the same limits and biases as us: they too are stuck with three pillars in a single theory to make the theory explainable. Science is creating universal (exoplanet) neural pathways in our brains. We should embrace the fact that by being non-intuitive but true, this science wires our brain based on science and thus universally. It is the way (the wiring) that all planets are headed to if they´re into science. It´s a universal world-view. We´re thinking like aliens.
In current scientific debates the religious will argue that faith (in a dogma) is needed to (what they call) “understand” the existence of the universe. If confronted with my theory (these lectures) they´d have to agree that logic makes their God unnecessary as a pillar of creation. In the best case scenario God is simply a synonym for Reality (because Reality is “that of which all is part” and thus God ought to be part of it too, and all we know about Reality is that it is energymass in spacetime and separation in intertwinedness).
Having an explanation – the negative side of it is it being three-pillared and unintuitive, the positive side of it being that it accounts for all of Reality and predicts evolution – further justifies the saying “a God of the gaps” (meaning the more we understand the less we need God). Now all that remains to be understood – again in an unintuitive but identical to exoplanets -way – is how, on an infinite time-line, the Big Bang (denseness) recreates and fades away into sparseness (black holes removing energymass and dark energy creating more space until no galaxies are anymore visible).
Lecture 4
The beginning of the Big Bang
I have a hard time imagining how the universe can reach complete emptiness, but it wouldn´t be the first time the universe´s nature surpasses human intuition. In the history of science stars were observed to not move relative to one another on the night sky, and this was argued to prove that the size of the universe was much smaller than the now known size – it was argued that the universe would be “unreasonably big” if the stars didn´t seem to move relative to one another as the earth moved because they were so far away.
If only enough time is needed for the universe to become empty, then we get the starting scenario which is most reasonable: we start with emptiness (spacetime). Again, spacetime is emptier than our concept for it because we (and our concepts) are made of energymass.
If you move your hand one meter (from position 1 to position 2), the laws of nature that make your hand make sense were already in place in the space of position 2 before you moved your hand there. It´s not like the universe/spacetime was absurd in location 2 and only started to make sense regarding hands when you moved your hand there. We do not impact the laws of nature in such ways; instead the laws of nature are simultaneously and equally true at all locations and all times. In other words: Pythagoras’s theorem is true even in locations where there are no objects whatsoever, but the theorem is only applicable (to be applied) to triangles. In empty space there are no objects and thus no triangles, but Pythagoras´s theorem is true there anyhow – it does not suddenly become true (switch from being untrue to true) when a triangle is imagined or physically moved there. This applies to E=mc
2
too, which is just as much of a law of nature as Pythagoras´s theorem. E=mc
2
is true everywhere and always, though humans only apply (use) the equation in certain scenarios. Where triangles can be (in spacetime) there is also E=mc
2
. Laws of nature are fundamental and inherent in spacetime and do not come about depending on events (though our application/use of any particular equation is dependent on which event we´re analyzing).
There is distinction between the practical use of equations (to solve problems or understand a phenomenon) and the core nature of spacetime having laws of nature in it. Spacetime is a no-nonsense spacetime – we live in a rational (laws of nature-abiding) universe.
One law being E=mc
2
and another one being “if it is said it must exist” (meaning energymass can´t be mentioned in the laws of nature of spacetime without energymass existing), we get spacetime to summon energymass if the starting-point was complete emptiness. “If energymass is mentioned it must be summoned” (it is mentioned in E=mc
2
) is true because it would be a nonsense universe if it “talks” about energymass without there being any – just infinite space for eternity with laws of nature regarding energymass, but never any energymass appearing/being present. It would be a nonsense universe if energymass it mentioned but never exists. It would be akin to the universe telling lies (having all these rules like E=mc
2
but never applying them to anything), or the universe babbling gibberish (having inapplicable laws of nature).
Thus, E=mc
2
being a core property of spacetime itself and the “no gibberish”-rule applying, energymass must logically be summoned – but how and where? Extremely dense i.e. everywhere, in the smallest spaces, simultaneously. Why? Our starting-point is spacetime, which needs no prior justification because it is the opposite of existence: it doesn´t exist – it is emptier than our neurons make it out to be. In it Einstein´s theory of relativity is true, meaning that there is no center point (or in other words: all points are the center) so there is no center to the Big Bang. Another way of seeing it is that as soon as there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification), E=mc
2
became true in all locations (in the smallest spaces) simultaneously – no point in space was before another in having E=mc
2
be true in it. Spacetime having E=mc
2
as a core property has E=mc
2
be true everywhere simultaneously; once we have the launching-condition of empty spacetime, through E=mc
2
, energymass is summoned everywhere simultaneously.
This “everywhere” is all things within an event horizon, meaning that things moving away faster than the speed of light (due to dark energy/accelerating cosmic expansion) are not within our event
horizon: they are not part of what can be reasonably called “our 3-dimensional space” (from our location). Things are not part of our universe once their speed hits faster than the speed of light – and many locations, within the boundaries of their respective event horizons, will one day have all energymass moving away from them at speeds faster than the speed of light (this is just the observed fact of accelerating cosmic expansion). Such a finite space with no energymass within its event horizon (all energymass moving away faster than the speed of light) would constitute “completely empty space” i.e. our starting-point for the Big Bang (energymass being summoned due to E=mc
2
).
Consider an infinite size-range - it is made of energymasspacetime: if we draw it as the Y-axis on a diagram, there can´t be a region/length in it (such as the knowable size-range) which is completely empty forever. See fig. 6.
Because of the rules E=mc
2
and “if it is mentioned it must be summoned”/”no-nonsense universe” are true throughout the infinite size-range, there can´t be a region with just spacetime (with its laws of nature) because the laws of spacetime mention energymass; spacetime is inherently tied to and intertwined with energymass – existence and non-existence go together (at all sizes). There would be no logical breaking-point (a particular size) where energymasspacetime transitions into being just spacetime for a range of sizes and then transitions back into energymasspacetime; there is no logical breaking-point where the implications of E=mc
2
(the implication being: energymass and spacetime are in the same equation) stop to be true. The transition seen in fig. 6 is impossible (there is no “empty region”). Having an empty region would be akin to zooming into the decimals of pi and seeing no numbers for a specific array of decimals: 3.14159ÄÄÄÄ265359... The Ä´s can´t be there: it´s a continuous sequence of decimal numbers. There is no break/”empty region” in the continuous decimals of pi just as there is no region of the size-range that can be empty of energymass.
In this chapter I´ve written something akin to “
first
there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification unless you consider that the size-axis of the size-time-diagram is infinite),
then
there was E=mc
2
,
then
there was energymass summoned into the smallest spaces available (available = considered to be within an event horizon and empty)”. This harkens back to previous lectures´ talk about “alien logic” (how exoplanets think). To have it make sense to our brains we use the time-
distinctions “first, then and then” but the real distinction is not in time but in steps in a sequence of logic. In other words all the mentioned steps happened simultaneously to start the Big Bang: E=mc
2
was true as soon as there was spacetime, and as soon as there was that, energymass appeared as not to make the universe absurd (by it talking gibberish or it having an empty region like in fig. 6).
The end of the Big Bang
Telescopes observe that “space is being born” i.e. that the distances between clumps of energymass (galaxies) are getting larger, and at an accelerating pace too. Not only does the Hubble law state that an object a
million light
-
years
away would be receding from us at 21 km/sec and at double the distance twice the speed, but the law states that that speed (for example 21 km/sec a million light years away) is increasing. This is called accelerating cosmic expansion. It means that from our galaxy, when/if we look into the sky trillions of years in the future, we´d see no trace of any other galaxy let alone the cosmic microwave background (because their speeds have passed the speed of light and thus went beyond the event horizon). Once that object a million light years away from us which today is racing away at 21 km/sec reaches 299792 km/sec (the speed of light), it will pass from being within our event horizon to being outside our sphere of events.
This empties our universe or as Hitchens put it: “nothingness is coming”. Once that nothingness comes we have our starting point where we run through the logic of E=mc
2
–> “if it is mentioned it must exist/be summoned” (in order for the universe not to talk gibberish or the infinite size-range not to have a break in it) –> energymass begins as dense (because of relativity and because E=mc
2
is true everywhere simultaneously/equally).
We observe that nothingness (within event horizons) is coming, and beginning from nothingness there is unintuitive logic that has a predictive quality to it: the Big Bang should start dense. This theory works well with lecture 2´s proofs for that “there is more to Reality than can be represented” (the size-time-diagram is infinite) because size is essentially space, and space and time are intertwined into a single spacetime – hence: if size/space is infinite then time must be infinite too. In other words we have reoccurring Big Bangs interspersed along the time-axis of our size-time-diagram. As soon as a region bound by an event horizon becomes empty we have the universe´s no-nonsense-laws kicking in and E=mc
2
summons energymass (in the smallest sizes that are empty equally/simultaneously).
The sequence of consecutive Big Bangs´ beginnings (emptiness leading to energymass being summoned) and ends (accelerating cosmic expansion speeding things past a point´s event horizon and emptiness being summoned) are as infinite as the time-axis proved to be based on lecture 2´s proofs. Proving (in lecture 2) that spacetime is infinite fits perfectly with the reoccurring Big Bangs (when somethingness becomes emptiness and then emptiness summons somethingness).
There will in other words, between the beginning of a Big Bang and the end of that same Big Bang, be life within the conscious/human size-range (the different locations of that size already being infinitely many, see fig. 4).
Each size along the size-axis is defined as “3-dimensional infinite space” meaning there is infinitely much life with access to universal science (i.e. some version of this lecture-series), and within our region (bound by an event horizon) there is life between the beginning and end of Big Bangs. In addition I have hard to believe that a reproducing shape (and thus evolution) only occurs in only
one
size-range (the, for humans, knowable size-range) in an infinite size-range: there ought to be many sub-size-ranges as part of the infinite size-range where evolution occurs and can reach scientific knowledge. All life mentioned above, if they reach scientific understanding, would concur on the existential theory presented in these lectures (especially lecture 3 – the three pillars/foundations/ideas which together become a minimalist theory for why there is the infinite size-range of energymasspacetime in the first place).
This is not only exoplanet science – it is science between Big Bangs and it is science in regions of the size-axis far away (in size) from our knowable size-range. See fig. 7.
Summary
First we looked at Descartes’ ”thought exists” and ”the self exists”, claimed that it was two valid statements and pointed out the distinction between them. On the other side of the paper we wanted to represent anti-distinction (the opposite of distinction) defined as “that of which all is part” (Reality), and realized that since thinker/thought is stuck on the left side of the paper we can’t represent Reality. This is not only Kant’s “the thing is not the thing itself (the mental map is not the real territory)” but more importantly whatever cannot be taken to represent “that of which all is part” i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality.
All we know about Reality (atoms, humans, galaxies) fit into a size-time-diagram (every object has a size and a time), so the minimalist approach combining the above paragraph with this one is to use the first paragraph to prove that the size-time diagram has infinite
axes. This in turn leads to an existential theory which can be summed up as “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime” – and it has a predictive quality to it: somewhere in such an existence there would be a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape and thus we get reproduction/evolution.
So far we’ve looked at the theory of why size itself exists, why there is something rather than nothing – an existential theory beginning from certain truth and logically building its way up all the way to predicting evolution.
Part 2: Evolution
My explanation of evolution focuses on how important disease and bullying (power) was for evolution.
Power
means that
fish
were
fighting fish breeding more agressive fish = dinosaurs, then wolfpacks with an alpha male.
But even before and after those eras in evolution the rule of power was in play.
In part one we had an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime (including the intertwinedness-separation-opposition and the time-axis with repeating Big Bangs perpendicular to the size-axis) that predicts a reproducing shape i.e. a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape: reproduction in an infinite size-range.
This infinite size-range predicts reproduction.
Part one was about why there is a sizescale of energymasspacetime: the answers are that the sizescale is infinite and that energymass is in spacetime. It predicts that there should be a reproducing shape: say that it is a triangle which gathers surrounding lines into a similar triangle – then it has reproduced itself. The products of this reproduction obey three rules: directly when there was reproduction three rules came into play, I´ve listed them below as 1, 2, 3 but they are not in order (they came simultaneously):
1:
There is life and death: those who survive survive and those who die are not in the game anymore. “The surviving survive”. It´s so simple – we see it in everyday life today. But everything in evolution will come back to these three rules so we might as well do the banal and bring them up.
So directly when there was a reproducing shape - so in our part of the size-range a DNA-strand which split in the middle and became two DNA-strands – the copy either survived or died.
2: The second rule is that the number of offspring has significance. That is to say: if you get one child or five children or ten children, there is a difference between those numbers – and in evolution it´s a benefit to have more children. One can also have zero children, and that is approximately like being dead.
Some would say that evolution´s meaning (the main task of life) is to make more offspring – that it´s the scientific meaning of life – Nature´s meaning: to reproduce. But I would answer that evolution makes more offspring (that´s reproduction) and making more offspring gives evolutionary benefits, but Nature itself does not care – it does not care about whether we nuke ourselves or not. There is no God that looks upon us and cares. Even reproduction becomes meaningless in the larger perspective. But in evolution it has significance whether one has zero offspring or ten offspring.
Rule number two (number of offspring matters) just as simple as rule number 1 (that there is life and death; that some live and some die).
The third rule that appered... – well all three rules appeared simultaneously directly when there was reproduction in this sizerange. The third rule is that:
3: There is mutation in every generation-shift. Things change. It doesn’t make perfect copies. Your child (if you have one) is not an exact copy of yourself or your wife – it’s a mutation; a change.
These three rules – 1: that there is life and death, the surviving survive. 2: That there are different nuances in the number of offspring. 3: That there is mutation in every generation-shift – these three rules came into play directly when the first reproduction occurred. We will return to these three rules over and over again; they are like laws of nature that like God says shall work on life directly when the first life reproduces itself. These laws of nature didn’t exist before the first life reproduced itself – they were not active then. They became active directly when there was reproduction.
These are abstract laws that we will manufacture, then we have the physical reality of that in a puddle of water a strand of DNA – a cell – made copies/offspring. Then viruses came into the game and injected its own DNA into the ordinary cells, that is to say: hijacked their reproductive system to create virus-offspring. If this would´ve continued the ocean would´ve been filled with only viruses, so there has to be some next step which made it so that our type of life survived. But the viruses added a 4
th
law (one of these abstract laws)
and that is: if you can hijack someone else’s reproductive system to create your own offspring; if you can inject your DNA into somebody else´s cell so that it creates viruses – I call this “power”. We will return to this word when we for example look at dinosaurs (they became bigger because the men killed each other to get the women whom make offspring). This power-principle was one that came after the three first ones.
The first cells reproduced and we had these three rules, then viruses came and injected their DNA and used “power” to produce more viruses. Then we get an immune-system which kills viruses i.e. protects the original organism´s reproductive system from being hijacked by viruses. So the immune-system evolved to take back the reproductive principle (2: the number of offspring matters); for the fact that one should retain the reproductive capability for oneself – so that no virus can take it over. So power has a lot to do with the number of offspring – principle 4 has a lot to do with principle 2.
We have multicellular organisms with immune-systems, we have viruses around them – and it´s an arms-race between that the viruses mutate to overcome the immune-system and the immune-
system mutates to overcome the virus. Thus we have an evolutionary pressure on mutating the immune-system as much as possible as fast as possible (because the viruses mutate very quickly), and the best way to do that is to combine genes from two different organisms: a man and a woman. So sex has its beginning in viruses.
If this doesn´t make you feel comfortable contemplate this: the truth outweighs positive-thinking. But does one want to remove whatever spreads joy among people? Those who want to defeat the religious violence in the world (I think religion is the biggest unnecessary cause of hatred in the world) – one cannot defeat that without defeating all religiousness simultaneously. To want to defeat one part of religion but not the rest of it is like voting for the Republicans and Democrats simultaneously – it´s just unreal. Sadly one must remove the good to remove the evil. Meditation still remains and one can get a kind of anxietylessness from some thoughts still but in the big picture there are no reasons that support them anymore – it´s just a brain-trick that one does.
In our evolutionary story we had an immune-system which mutates, wants more mutations – we get two genders. Then men begin to war with each other (because, metaphorically speaking, women can produce offspring once a year while men can produce it every day – we have an imbalance; asymmetry). Why is it always men that start wars? It began with the first fish – we had multicellular life in our story so far, so they became a bit bigger, could swim around – we get fish: it´s easier to find food then and easier to move around. Directly when there were two genders there was one fish which evolved to use its teeth for killing other male fish. The first aggressor of course got the most offspring because there were no other men around. That´s why men go to war: they can produce offspring with so many women while a woman has no benefit from having 1000 men.
There´s a caveat to
this once we get to caveman tribes/wolf-packs where a woman secretly wants many men to provide resources to her child, but at least in the era between fish and dinosaurs the picture was simply based on asymmetric reproductive rates.
So then the male fish grow more aggressive, the child who is the biggest and has the sharpest teeth kills the other male fish, has the most offspring; and in the next generation, again: the child with the most aggression and biggest muscles gets the most offspring – that´s how we get to dinosaurs and T-rex. We had males competing/fighting with each other and that´s why T-rex is so large. That is, again, the power-principle: just like viruses took over the reproductive system from the first cells, T-rex takes away the reproductive system from his rivals by killing them. So this principle number 4 (power) lives on – it has caused/causes so much: it causes the first viruses, it causes T-rex, that fish become aggressive, that we get two genders (by viruses getting power – so we wanted to counter that power by immune-systems i.e. two genders).
These dinosaurs then, just like humans don´t seem to have (sarcasm), any concept of preserving natural resources – so they would´ve eaten up all their trees and not had any food left. But on our planet it seems to have been a meteor-strike which wiped them out, but on exoplanets i.e. overall in this evolutionary series of evolutionary pressures causing various principles (first the three first principles, then the 4
th
principle, immune-systems, two-genderedness, bigger
fish, fights between the fish, dinosaurs). The dinosaurs ate their natural resources and all large life dies - so only small rat-like/squirrel-like life-forms live on.
The trees grow back up – we get monkeys.
Groups tend to, in a fight – if it´s a group against an individual (one against many) – the group tends to win. So we monkeys form groups, fighting together for food against individualists. The individualists lost.
So we got this - or had it from the get-go (just like with the first aggressors) – instinct that makes us want to be highest in the hierarchy and thereby get all the women. Power again. But this time it´s a kind of human power – we saw power when viruses took over the reproductive systems, we saw power when dinosaurs outcompeted their rivals (the men), we see power when a bully goes to the top of the hierarchy, pushes down the other men – and the women want the bully´s resources (he has the most stuff) so they´re attracted to him, so he gets the most offspring – out of his offspring the one that is best at getting power the one that gets most offspring.
The reason for why the brain grew so fast during the past 100 000 years was because we used the brain to plan for how to climb upward in the hierarchy. The reproductive benefits coming from being high-status in the hierarchy were so great comparing to being low-status that this put great selection-pressure on bigger brains.
Now we basically have caveman living in hierarchical societies, we have kings, aristocrats and slaves – and that is how the world was 5000 years ago. The kings build monumental architecture (pyramids and such). Then someone focused on a random word – so someone focused on what we talked about in part 1: Reality (that of which all is part) and realized one cannot see it (because we should be part of it, or the other two proofs for not being able to see all there is to Reality) and thus they invented the word God: it is one, one cannot see it – we have the dawn of monotheism.
Someone random-focused on the word “soul/self” too and realized one gets less anxiety by making a distinction between the body
one sees in ones imaginations
21.12
Author
yonis
Posted on
30/11/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Latest version of my book
latest (v2)
v2-3-2
Author
yonis
Posted on
28/11/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on latest (v2)
latest v (2)
v2-3
Author
yonis
Posted on
27/11/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on latest v (2)
Latest version (1)
v2-3
Warrior of Boredom
The title of this book refers to that it is hard to get through this book. The reason why this new science (that I present in this book) hasn’t been discovered until I did is because it’s depressing, anxiety-giving and BORING. But the question is: does everyone agree on it? If they do, that changes the Israel-Palestine-conflict where the parties of God are vetoing “the holy land”. Religion is the biggest cause for hate in the world, as Hitchens said. My book defeats religion – it’s a minimalist theory that works completely – a theory of Everything: existence (why there is size itself), evolution – even thoughts on the methodology for doing politics.
Philosophy = honor,
but anxiety/depression and boredom. Religion = no honor,
but less anxiety/depression and less boredom.
Lecture 1
Descartes
One of the aims of this course is to get EVERYONE to agree so that they have the same associations between scientific concepts.
There is no other proper way to accomplish this goal than by starting with certain truth, which was found by Descartes in the 1600s. He lived in a time where they believed in demons, Gods etc. so he postulated a thought experiment where he assumed an almighty demon was fooling him in everything he could be fooled in: what would remain as certain truth – what could he not be fooled in?
If he was being fooled, where would still be a “he” (or self) there to be fooled, meaning that the self certainly exists. A self is necessary for a self to be fooled.
Descartes had thus concluded his own existence.
Being fooled is thinking – thus thought exists. “There is thought” Descartes concluded as certain truth. The word “fooling” represents a thought-process.
Descartes found the starting-position for any inquiry about truth: we can know certainly that thinker and thought exists.
Distinction exists (a logical conclusion from the above)
Looking at what we´ve found as certain truth so far “from above” (meta), we can take the next logical step – adding a third factoid to our 2-statement (A and B above) starting position: that there is distinction (
between
thinker and thought). The fact that thinker and thought are two separate entities concluded to be certain truth
s
through two
different
logical pathway
s
lets us conclude that “distinction exists”
. There are what Chinese philosophy calls “the ten thousand things” (referring to the world) – there are at least two (three if we include “distinction” as th
e third thing) certain
entities, and empirically we know there are “ten thousand things” (not taking the number 10 000 literally but just referring to multiplicity).
First universal diagram
We can draw the thinker and thought and distinction between them as two dots with a line between them on a piece of paper (fig. 1).
Now we have something all religions agree on
– we´ve drawn up ideas and associations between them. Everyone ought to have the same associations (explanatory thoughts) between the concepts we´ve looked at so far.
We have, if you will – in figure 1 – a universal diagram.
Reality
We have the capability to conglomerate many separate entities under the rubric of a single category. If we use this capability to collect the “ten thousand things” (distinct entities) we´ve found so far into a single thing, we ought to give that thing a word/name. Its definition can be “that of which all is part” and “the opposite of separation/distinction”. I will use the word Reality to refer to this all-encompassing thing.
In lecture 2 I will present three proofs for that “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, but for now we can draw (adding to figure 1) a dot with a cross over it – the cross to symbolize that the dot itself is a false representation of Reality because we (the observer/self/thinker) should be part of that dot. See fig 2.
Thinking about what we´ve got so far
Thinking about what we´ve got so far (fig. 2) it’s a bundle of associations which make universal inter-religious (all religions agree on it) knowledge with both words and pictures.
In the next lecture I present why the line in fig 2 (see fig 3) represents the opposition/antagonism/disagreement/contraposition/divergence/variance between the two sides of the paper; between “thinker and thought” on one side of the paper and “Reality (that of which all is part; the opposite of separation)” on the other side of the paper.
Worth noting now is that the left side of the paper represents separation/distinction whilst the right side of the paper represents the opposite of separation/distinction – both are legitimate ideas: thinker and thought – and distinction – is certain truth based on Descartes and we all know which idea we refer to when talking about the all-encompassing [that of which all is part] Reality.
In the next lecture we will talk about why the line in fig. 3 makes it so that we can´t see Reality – I will present three proofs like in a crime case, and we will talk about what we can see if we can´t see Reality.
Making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far
1
See fig. 1 again: it´s our starting-point and the thinking that occurs in it happens in Descartes “realm of mind”; it is the mind´s realm (the left side of the paper) in which the thinking happens, and one thing we talk about is Reality on the right side of the paper in fig 3. Since the line in fig. 3 represents both the legitimacy of the ideas on both sides of the paper, and simultaneously the opposition between separation/distinction (on the left side of the paper) and [the opposite of separation/distinction] on the right side of the paper. That opposition is important and I will show its significance in lecture 2.
2
Starting from Descartes realm (of if you will: assuming that all we know is what we know for certain), we have the capability to state that there is a single Reality of which all is part – so even though we see separation we must grant that that separation (all entities) fits into a category we call Reality. There is a unifying whole even though the human mind (Descartes realm) is limited in its ways when it tries to contemplate Reality.
Not only is there the map-territory distinction (which will be presented as one out of three proofs in lecture 2), but there is also a more fundamental opposition between distinction and its opposite (there is a more fundamental opposition between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3). Not only are we stuck in the map-territory-distinction-realm but we also can conclude that no representation (regardless of the mind) is equal to Reality (on a more fundamental level than the map-territory-problem).
Representation is done in the brain using neurons and in a computer using electrons, but there is no reason why the most distant atom or quark couldn´t be proposed to be a symbol for [that of which all is part] – and even in that brainless scenario we will see in lecture 2 that “that of which all is part cannot be represented”. The map-territory-distinction is just proof/evidence number two in lecture 2 (for that we cannot see Reality and thus, since we do see/represent something, there must be more to Reality than can be represented i.e. the size-time-diagram (presented in lecture
2) is infinite along both axes.
Proof 3 in lecture 2 removes the brain from the equation and still proves that there is more to Reality than can be seen/represented/symbolized (using any means/any method – even without a brain), and since some representation is obviously (since we know that there are minds) possible, there must be more than can be represented/contemplated i.e. the size-axis is infinite and the time-axis is infinite in that two-axis diagram.
3
Both sides of the paper in fig. 3 are legitimate ideas. But still they are opposites (separation on one side and the opposite of separation on the other side). How can two derived-from-logic sides of the paper be opposites but still both be legitimate?
Usually opposition – like between Democrats and Republicans – means that one is right and the other is wrong; they can´t both simultaneously be right: you can´t meaningfully vote for both parties at the same time.
The case is different between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3: both sides are right and they are opposites.
There is a single Reality and there is multiplicity in distinction.
What does this mean? That there is more to the size-time-diagram than anything could represent – any representation fails (you can think of some
examples/suggestions for how to represent [that of which all is part]/[the opposite of separation]) – and thus the axes on the size-time-diagram are infinite. This is a hither to unpresented fact in science – it is new science: some of the best scientists ignorantly believe that the size-range is limited/finite.
4
We have quite a few associations and symbols in fig. 3 which must be agreed upon, and here I´m using the word “must” in the sense that “by the rules of logic X must be true”. Other civilizations throughout the infinitely many galaxies there are use the exact same ideas (but in a different language) and have the same associations between them (that there are infinitely many galaxies is derived from that the size-axis in the size-time-diagram is infinite). There is distinction as the third truth to be added to Descartes two fundamental truths (thinker and thought exist), and all that is opposed to (on the other side of the paper in fig. 3) to the all-encompassing Reality which is defined using at least two definitions: that of which all is part and the opposite of separation.
I´m tri-lingual but I write the same ideas and associate them in the same ways no matter which language I write in – its universal science beginning from certain truth. On other planets that have civilizations my writings in this book ought to match up quite near to the writings creating the same lecture series based on universal science that I´m creating
– “alien”/exo-planet
lecture series proceed, beginning from certain fact, through logical steps as I do.
5
[Thinker and thought] (certain truth) and thus distinction/separation are associated through negation/opposition to the right side of the paper in figure 3: Reality. The left side is not the right side just like separation is not its opposites. Both being legitimate ideas, though, connects them in the way that thinker and thought (and all other distinct entities) are in the category Reality.
Even though Reality and distinction are opposites, distinction dwells in (as a sub-entity within the category) Reality.
The associations between the left and right sides of the paper in figure 3 are both united through the notion “opposition” and through the notion that distinction is inherent in Reality (Reality being the opposite of distinction
because we have all-encompassing and its opposite: composite parts).
6
It is certainly true that all is part of a single Reality; but it is equally true that in every observation there is an observer and hence distinction (between thinker and thought). We see separate entities is as true as that the self that we are is not in front of us – but everything we see (thought/object) is in front of us.
That is evidence 1 in lecture 2 (not a proof, but a mere suggestion/evidence that [that of which all is part cannot be observed] and thus there is more to Reality than our concept of [infinitely much].
All we know about Reality has two properties: a size and a time. Size and time are two axes on a diagram, and thus all we know fits into the size-time-diagram (every object or location in space has a size and time).
There is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram because all suggested representors for Reality fail
(for three reasons taken up in lecture 2).
7
All
bundles of associations in this chapter “making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far”
are written in order to create some universal brain structures (universal because
science is the same everywhere (on all exo-planets), and their brains make the same associations too eventually). It´s not some random bundle of associations nor did I randomly present random ideas.
I assume the brain structure created by understanding this book is a replica of something derived from science; a replica of brain structures on the infinitely many other civilization-bearing planets. It´s a universal “ideology”, if you will.
Everyone has a possibility of sharing it in agreement – and future lectures will add a whole lot of complexity to it; agreement tends to build friendship so study is a way of bringing more peace to the world.
Once the full world-view is presented throughout this book, it´s a way of pacifying the world.
8
We have two brain-halves: one linguistic and one visual. So far we´ve both drawn pictorial representations and connected words – both brain-halves have been working. The connections across corpus collosum (which sits between the brain-halves and connects them) that connect a linguistic narrative/explanation to the pictorial representations are one day found in all humans thanks to science. Our brains are becoming more as science has a propensity to make them be.
This course itself, since it begins with certain truths and builds upon it logically, is a universal course (to the best of my ability).
The brain cells that constitute the negation (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 3) or opposition are not the same kind of cells (they are inhibitory neurons) that connect thinker with though as both being certain truths (but the thinker is not the thought and thus has inhibitory cells making that brain-structure work too
(what you are is not in front of you;
what you are is not visible).
Since both Reality and [what you are]/self/observer/thinker are invisible the brain might erroneously and spontaneously try to associate them, so a brain-structure is needed to inhibit that association (and replace it with a more complex explanation). That spontaneous but erroneous association is something all thinking animals throughout the universe evolved to do, and the inhibition of it through culture/civilizing/science is universally available within complex enough civilizations throughout the universe.
As you can see the brain structures responsible for doing this thing are quite complex, but also universal and thus accessible to all humans, and predictably will someday be in all humans (fostering agreement, thus friendship, thus peace).
Lecture 2
Perceive, apprehend, notice are synonyms for our representing ability, but I will use the word “see” or “observe” to refer to all of these. The goal of this lecture is to prove the statement “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, Reality being defined as “that of which all is part”. In other words: we cannot see Reality, and thus there is more to Reality than even can be contemplated (i.e. infinitely much).
I will build this lecture like a criminal court case: I will present three proofs for that we cannot see Reality i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated i.e. (since we can contemplate anything (right or wrong)) Reality is infinite.
Since anything/everything we know about Reality has some size and time, it fits into a size-time-diagram. See fig. 4.
In fig. 4 size is represented along the vertical axis and time along the horizontal axis. The objects humans see in everyday life (from the horizon to a single cell as one “pixel” in our visual field) are marked in “the human range”.
See fig 5.
In fig. 5 I´ve drawn the same diagram as in fig. 4 but this time with infinity-symbols in each corner of the squareical size-time-diagram. Two infinite axes become a square.
Proof number 3 in our “court case” for proving that the size-time-diagram (Reality) is infinite has us imagine the unobservable separatenessless Reality and ask whether there is a maximum or minimum size to/in it (a maximum/minimum being separateness while we are talking about the opposite of separation). This is again to confirm that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes.
The line we drew in fig. 4 was for separating the two sides of the paper; opposing “thinker and thought” (distinction) with its opposite: one all-encompassing non-distinction Reality. That opposition-line is what this lecture is about since it proves that the two sides of the paper are
separate/opposing realms and we are stuck in one realm as long as we are observers (because observation is separation/distinction (thinker and thought)).
Proving that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes is new science because it poses the question: what happened before the Big Bang (14 billion years ago), and it presents one pillar of our existential theory: that each size is the reason for each next and previous size, and the size axis is infinite, meaning the “beginning” of the relationship between sizes keeps retreating into infinity the more we contemplate the range of the size axis.
When I presented fig. 4 for the first time I drew a cross over the dot symbolizing Reality for the plain reason that we (as observers) should be part of that dot, and by the very nature of us being separate (and the dot representing the opposite of separation) we should draw a cross over it symbolizing that we cannot see it.
The main proof though is that even if all observers were dead there´d still be, inherent and fundamental in nature, the opposition between distinction and distinction´s opposite (the two sides of the paper in fig. 4). The line is an opposition-line and it is more fundamental than being dependent on humans/observers – it refers to all representation whether it’s using/including humans or not. I am, in other words, not talking about the map-territory distinction (which symbolizes that humans have mental maps and not the real world per se; like Kant said: we have “the thing” and not “the thing itself”). Proof 2 – the opposition-line between the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 – is not subjective: it is true that we live with the map-territory-distinction but even if I died there´d still be separate things (chairs separate from cups), that kind of separation is not dependent on me/observers. Simultaneously the flipside of the coin (the other side of the paper in fig. 4) is true too: all is one single Reality (the opposite of separation). Proof 2, in other words, should not be interpreted as signifying the map-territory distinction (human subjectivity) but instead a fundamental opposition in the universe.
If we do not see Reality, then what do we see? Everything we see fits into the size-time-diagram, and since the opposition-line in fig. 4 shows that there is a fundamental rule that states, in 3 different proofs, that Reality is infinite / there is more than can even be contemplated / there is more than even non-subjective representation can represent.
Proof number 1 is really weaker than a “proof” – it´s more like evidence. It wouldn´t hold up in a court but it is a way of stating what the other proofs too point towards. Proof 1 is what we saw when presenting figure 4: any dot representing Reality is an incorrect representation because the observer should be part of the object – the thinker should be part of the thought. It denies Cartesian separation and thus is untrue, meaning that anything we draw on the right side of the paper in fig. 4 is incorrect.
We can contemplate anything: we can speculate about what´s smaller than quantum physics, or even what´s smaller than that, etc. into infinity. We are probably wrong, but any contemplation/representation counts as a contemplation – and since we know that, whether right or wrong as our contemplations may be, there is more to Reality than can be contemplated, it follows that there must be infinitely much to Reality. Since all we know about Reality fits into a size-time-diagram, the minimalist approach is to state that it´s the size-time-diagram that is infinite.
This warrants two new words: the knowable/known size-range and the infinite size-range. The knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range. Since Einstein unified space (size) and time, one cannot be infinite without the other one being the same. Science today doesn´t know whether there was a “before” to the Big Bang or not (whether time was created at the Big Bang), but now we know that the Big Bang is just an event on an infinite time axis. In a future lecture we will talk about how/why the Big Bang recreates (happens over and over).
We talked about universal diagrams (and universal brain-structures) in lecture 1. The size-time-diagram is one major universal diagram. A lot of detail can be added to it because all fields of science fit into it. The infinity-symbols on each axis of the squareical diagram are drawn, based on science, on exo-planets with advanced enough civilizations.
This lecture is about proving that [that of which all is part] (the opposite of separation) i.e. Reality cannot be observed/represented, and that this fact is true irrespective of whether we are observers or dead, and applying this to the size-time-diagram (which gets its infinity-symbols into the squareical diagram).
Proof number 2 (the main proof) is the oppositional approach between Reality and distinction, and it is not subjective because Reality and Reality´s opposite exist even if we were dead. Proof number 3 is about imagining (even though no imagination is it) Reality as a big gray (because energymass is white and spacetime is black) solid, in which we know no observer should be (because observation is separation) – does it have separation i.e. a biggest and a smallest size? No, because such distinctions are not in the opposite of distinction (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 4).
I´ve mentioned universal associations in the brain / exo-planet science, so talking about the size-time-diagram we can add more universal notions to it: why did I draw upwards on the size axis as larger and downward as smaller? Why is the time-axis horizontally drawn instead of vertically? The diagram works even if we would define the vertical axis as time and the horizontal axis as size – so why do we draw size vertically and time horizontally? Is it universal i.e. on other planets or just a human convention like writing from left to right in English-speaking countries and right to left in Arabic-speaking countries?
Evolution has it so that during the history of science telescopes look upward and microscopes look downward. This would be the case on other planets too: they turn their heads upward to see the large and downward (onto a table) to see the small; the opposite can´t be true on any planet. Thus we get the size axis´ standard (of upward being larger) from evolution / the history of science. I use the word “standard” because it comes from evolution rather than being more fundamentally hard-wired into the universe such as the fact that the size-time-diagram is a square with infinity symbols. That the size-time-diagram is a square is not a standard – it is something stronger than that. The fact that we represent time on the vertical axis (and upward as larger) comes from a weaker source: tradition (even though that same tradition is true on all planets; evolution, in this regard, happens the same on all planets that end up with civilizations).
We thus have added standards or weak conventions (derived from history) in addition to having strong diagrams like the size-time-diagram being a square. The distinction between the two is made based on science and is thus made on exo-planets.
Scientists are looking for exo-planets that bear civilizations. If the size-range is infinite – as we´ve proven that it is – then each particular size (like the human range in fig. 5) is infinite too; if the largest is infinitely large then there is, considering the size of a human, an infinite distance in any direction that that human could find itself in. This makes civilizations on other planets a must, not an assumption. The known/knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range, and within the known size-range there is a range in which evolution occurs (between the smallest cells and the biggest organisms), and since we´ve proven that there are infinitely many objects within/of that size-range, then there must be infinitely many locations in which evolution occurs.
In the next lecture we will bind together the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 (distinction and distinction´s opposite; “thinker and thought” opposing Reality) with E=mc
2
(energymasspacetime) and with the infinity of the size-time axes, into a single existential theory which is a rival to “God created earth in 6 days…” The existential theory is a minimalist account for why there is a sizescale in the first place, and why there is something (energymass) rather than nothing (spacetime). It reminds me of this passage: “HITCHENS: In other words, as the great physicist Laplace said when he demonstrated his working model (his orrery, as it’s called) of the solar system to the emperor and Napoleon said, “Well I see there’s no God in this system,” and Laplace said, “Well, Your Majesty, it works without that assumption.””
In this chapter I´ve presented three proofs for that the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in it i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated; we do represent something but however we choose to represent (even representations that can be proposed as thought-experiments if we were dead) we do not represent Reality i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality. Are there any counter-arguments saying that the size-time-diagram is finite? I built this lecture like a court case and I´d like to hear the opposing side. There are no arguments that oppose what I´ve proven so far.
Lecture 3
E=mc
2
E=mc
2
as an equation is only used in relativistic scenarios such as very high speed or very high energy, but since speed is a continuum the equation is true at slower speeds. There is a difference between the equation being applicable (being needed while solving equations) and it being true; it is always true everywhere but it is not needed for equations except in special scenarios.
An example of the equation being true everywhere and always is this: nuclear power-plants turn mass (kilograms) into energy (joule), so that if you input 1 kg of uranium-mass you get out 99.9999 kg of waste products – some of the mass turned into energy which lights our light-bulbs. The atoms that lost some weight (that weight was converted into energy) are atoms just like other kinds of atoms, for example in autumn leaves. If you´d drop leaves into the core of the sun, the sun´s nuclear furnace would turn mass in the leaves into energy (light). Hence all objects are subject to the E=mc
2
-rule, which states that energy (E) equals mass (m). This warrants the word energymass because they are no longer two distinct things – they are but different manifestations of the same thing. In the brain
energymass should be a single idea whilst the concepts “energy and mass” refers to two different forms of a single idea.
Verbs and adjectives tend to refer to energy (shining, running, etc.) while nouns refer to mass (body, tree, etc.) E=mc
2
states that the two (verbs/adjectives and nouns) are together in a single equation. Although only applicable in relativistic scenarios (the role of relativism becomes close to zero in everyday human events, except that our light-bulbs shine because mass turns into energy and the sun can makes leaves into light), E=mc
2
is in a “philosophical” sense true everywhere and always just like Pythagoras’s theorem about triangles remains “philosophically true” even where there are no physical triangles. You wouldn´t say 1=1 is not true in empty space just because there are no objects there to count as “1”.
In addition to energymass being a single concept (and not two distinct ones), spacetime gets added into the mix by the c
2
-part of the equation. c is the speed of light (km/h) and thus a distance (space) over time – spacetime! Energymass (E=m) and spacetime (c
2
) should in the brain be represented by a single idea which we can call energymasspacetime. This harkens back to the previous lectures about Reality, which is a synonym for energymasspacetime. Einstein invented the equation E=mc
2
and thus unified in it energymass with spacetime – and synonyms for energymass are “existence” or “1” while synonyms for spacetime are “non-existence”, “emptiness”, “nothing” and “zero”. There is no more to be considered regarding Reality than energymasspacetime; energymasspacetime involves everything (energymass) and nothing (spacetime) so there is nothing more to be considered/added to Reality – Reality is energymasspacetime; everything is included into Reality once we have defined Reality as energymasspacetime.
The Existential Theory
Each culture seems to have a creation myth (such as genesis) – the creation of the cosmos/world/Reality is something humans have invented hypotheses for during millennia. The stories answer the question “why are we here?”
The true answer is unintuitive. First of all: why is there any particular size? What justifies, say, the size of a molecule? The answer is: the smaller and the larger (the rest of the size-range). Atoms justify a molecule and a molecule exhibits a place for atoms to live in: justifies atoms. Humans need an earth to dwell on (the earth is larger) and humans are made of cells (cells are smaller). Each size bears a relationship upon each other size – the smaller justify the larger and the larger justify the smaller. Since the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all four corners of the square (because of the proof where we had two sides of a paper), the size-range is infinite i.e. the pattern of justification between/amongst sizes continues into the infinitely large and infinitely small. What the ancients called “the first cause” keeps retreating into infinity size-wise the more we contemplate it. The size-range is like a fractal: you can keep zooming in or out infinitely much, and the question “why is there this particular object that I see” has its answer in the relationship between all the sizes: justification. Infinite justification is the reason why there is a size-range at all. But there is more that is needed for a full-fledged existential theory: two more factors play their roles.
Spacetime is emptier than we can imagine/represent it. We (and all representeurs) are energymass and thus are the opposite of spacetime. We could let a piece of empty space represent spacetime, but as soon as we use energymass (such as our brains) to do so, we´ve lost the truly empty nature of
spacetime: it is unimaginably empty. Any bundle of neurons, no matter how we wire it, is still the opposite of what they want to represent when they want to present us with spacetime. It is therefore useful to have two concepts for spacetime: (1) our simplest intuition of spacetime and (2) additional defining language explaining that spacetime is emptier than (1). This is how exoplanet civilizations would wire their brains regarding the concept “spacetime” too, just because it’s the most accurate science they can manage.
Just like energy and mass are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon, energymass and spacetime are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon. What does it mean for spacetime to be bundled together with (intertwined with) energymass? Everything exists as/in/because of nothing; 1 exists in 0; energymass and spacetime are together in the E=mc
2
-equation. Where could energymass/existence exist? In nothingness. Just like sizes justify one another, spacetime justifies energymass.
The last question that remains, after we have justification between sizes in an infinite size-range, and that all points in the size-time-diagram are made of energymasspacetime (and energymass is justified by it being in spacetime), is the objective fact that there both is a single Reality (the right side of the paper) and there´s its opposite: distinction (between, say, thinker and thought).
The existential theory builds on three “pillars”/fundamental ideas:
An infinite sizescale,
Energymasspacetime as in the equation E=mc
2
Distinction between distinction itself and distinction´s opposite (see fig. 1, 2, 3):
Between distinction (the left side of the paper, our 2 certain truths: I exist and there is thought) and Reality (the opposite of distinction; one Reality (not plural)) there is a line that demarcates distinction/opposition.
Putting it all into one phrase we might say: “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime with opposition between distinction and Oneness”. At its core it´s three ideas (infinite size-time-diagram, energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
), separation and intertwinedness (the two sides of the paper)). On exoplanets they would state their reason for their own existence using these three ideas too, because taken together they explain all that needs to be explained: first thing that comes to mind is that in the stated existential theory there must be a reproducing shape (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape; a DNA-strand) somewhere. If the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all three corners, then evolution ought to occur somewhere (and be made of energymass in spacetime, while being separate/distinct in a single intertwined Reality).
Most creation-myths have a quite simple (one-pillared) and mundane story: for example genesis just states that God created Reality (that of which all is part) in 6 days and rested on the 7
th
. The scientific rival to all such creation stories is a three-pillared theory – we can´t make it any simpler (we can´t make it one-pillared) and the same would be the case on exoplanets: they too can only break it down to three interconnected ideas/pillars/fundaments, so in thinking this way we share a common intellectual history with exoplanet civilizations advanced enough to figure out this existential theory.
On a test on this subject a question might be: “what are the three pillars of the existential theory?” – the question can´t be “what is the most important pillar in the existential theory?” All pillars are equally important but constitute as distinct ideas as E=mc
2
is from infinite size, or the separation-intertwinedness-opposition (fig. 3).
This three-pillared creation story – the sum of these three chapters – is built upon logic: it includes certain truths like “I think and I exist” (distinction/separation), its opposite (Reality for which we have three proofs for that it can´t be observed/seen/contemplated i.e. the size-time-diagram is infinite), E=mc
2
which unifies nothing/spacetime with existence/energymass, and the relationship between any two sizes (justification along the infinite size-range). Every one of these ideas relates very closely to Descartes´ certain truth, meaning we can be sure of the ideas themselves – and they together build up a minimalist existential theory which needs no further logic to explain everything there is.
Having an infinite size-range has a predictive quality to it too – it makes a prediction: there ought to be evolution (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar mass) somewhere in the diversity we see throughout even the known size-range.
Though as non-intuitive as the 3-pillar existential theory may be to our evolved brains who want a single conclusion, exoplanet civilizations have the same limits and biases as us: they too are stuck with three pillars in a single theory to make the theory explainable. Science is creating universal (exoplanet) neural pathways in our brains. We should embrace the fact that by being non-intuitive but true, this science wires our brain based on science and thus universally. It is the way (the wiring) that all planets are headed to if they´re into science. It´s a universal world-view. We´re thinking like aliens.
In current scientific debates the religious will argue that faith (in a dogma) is needed to (what they call) “understand” the existence of the universe. If confronted with my theory (these lectures) they´d have to agree that logic makes their God unnecessary as a pillar of creation. In the best case scenario God is simply a synonym for Reality (because Reality is “that of which all is part” and thus God ought to be part of it too, and all we know about Reality is that it is energymass in spacetime and separation in intertwinedness).
Having an explanation – the negative side of it is it being three-pillared and unintuitive, the positive side of it being that it accounts for all of Reality and predicts evolution – further justifies the saying “a God of the gaps” (meaning the more we understand the less we need God). Now all that remains to be understood – again in an unintuitive but identical to exoplanets -way – is how, on an infinite time-line, the Big Bang (denseness) recreates and fades away into sparseness (black holes removing energymass and dark energy creating more space until no galaxies are anymore visible).
Lecture 4
The beginning of the Big Bang
I have a hard time imagining how the universe can reach complete emptiness, but it wouldn´t be the first time the universe´s nature surpasses human intuition. In the history of science stars were observed to not move relative to one another on the night sky, and this was argued to prove that the size of the universe was much smaller than the now known size – it was argued that the universe would be “unreasonably big” if the stars didn´t seem to move relative to one another as the earth moved because they were so far away.
If only enough time is needed for the universe to become empty, then we get the starting scenario which is most reasonable: we start with emptiness (spacetime). Again, spacetime is emptier than our concept for it because we (and our concepts) are made of energymass.
If you move your hand one meter (from position 1 to position 2), the laws of nature that make your hand make sense were already in place in the space of position 2 before you moved your hand there. It´s not like the universe/spacetime was absurd in location 2 and only started to make sense regarding hands when you moved your hand there. We do not impact the laws of nature in such ways; instead the laws of nature are simultaneously and equally true at all locations and all times. In other words: Pythagoras’s theorem is true even in locations where there are no objects whatsoever, but the theorem is only applicable (to be applied) to triangles. In empty space there are no objects and thus no triangles, but Pythagoras´s theorem is true there anyhow – it does not suddenly become true (switch from being untrue to true) when a triangle is imagined or physically moved there. This applies to E=mc
2
too, which is just as much of a law of nature as Pythagoras´s theorem. E=mc
2
is true everywhere and always, though humans only apply (use) the equation in certain scenarios. Where triangles can be (in spacetime) there is also E=mc
2
. Laws of nature are fundamental and inherent in spacetime and do not come about depending on events (though our application/use of any particular equation is dependent on which event we´re analyzing).
There is distinction between the practical use of equations (to solve problems or understand a phenomenon) and the core nature of spacetime having laws of nature in it. Spacetime is a no-nonsense spacetime – we live in a rational (laws of nature-abiding) universe.
One law being E=mc
2
and another one being “if it is said it must exist” (meaning energymass can´t be mentioned in the laws of nature of spacetime without energymass existing), we get spacetime to summon energymass if the starting-point was complete emptiness. “If energymass is mentioned it must be summoned” (it is mentioned in E=mc
2
) is true because it would be a nonsense universe if it “talks” about energymass without there being any – just infinite space for eternity with laws of nature regarding energymass, but never any energymass appearing/being present. It would be a nonsense universe if energymass it mentioned but never exists. It would be akin to the universe telling lies (having all these rules like E=mc
2
but never applying them to anything), or the universe babbling gibberish (having inapplicable laws of nature).
Thus, E=mc
2
being a core property of spacetime itself and the “no gibberish”-rule applying, energymass must logically be summoned – but how and where? Extremely dense i.e. everywhere, in the smallest spaces, simultaneously. Why? Our starting-point is spacetime, which needs no prior justification because it is the opposite of existence: it doesn´t exist – it is emptier than our neurons make it out to be. In it Einstein´s theory of relativity is true, meaning that there is no center point (or in other words: all points are the center) so there is no center to the Big Bang. Another way of seeing it is that as soon as there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification), E=mc
2
became true in all locations (in the smallest spaces) simultaneously – no point in space was before another in having E=mc
2
be true in it. Spacetime having E=mc
2
as a core property has E=mc
2
be true everywhere simultaneously; once we have the launching-condition of empty spacetime, through E=mc
2
, energymass is summoned everywhere simultaneously.
This “everywhere” is all things within an event horizon, meaning that things moving away faster than the speed of light (due to dark energy/accelerating cosmic expansion) are not within our event
horizon: they are not part of what can be reasonably called “our 3-dimensional space” (from our location). Things are not part of our universe once their speed hits faster than the speed of light – and many locations, within the boundaries of their respective event horizons, will one day have all energymass moving away from them at speeds faster than the speed of light (this is just the observed fact of accelerating cosmic expansion). Such a finite space with no energymass within its event horizon (all energymass moving away faster than the speed of light) would constitute “completely empty space” i.e. our starting-point for the Big Bang (energymass being summoned due to E=mc
2
).
Consider an infinite size-range - it is made of energymasspacetime: if we draw it as the Y-axis on a diagram, there can´t be a region/length in it (such as the knowable size-range) which is completely empty forever. See fig. 6.
Because of the rules E=mc
2
and “if it is mentioned it must be summoned”/”no-nonsense universe” are true throughout the infinite size-range, there can´t be a region with just spacetime (with its laws of nature) because the laws of spacetime mention energymass; spacetime is inherently tied to and intertwined with energymass – existence and non-existence go together (at all sizes). There would be no logical breaking-point (a particular size) where energymasspacetime transitions into being just spacetime for a range of sizes and then transitions back into energymasspacetime; there is no logical breaking-point where the implications of E=mc
2
(the implication being: energymass and spacetime are in the same equation) stop to be true. The transition seen in fig. 6 is impossible (there is no “empty region”). Having an empty region would be akin to zooming into the decimals of pi and seeing no numbers for a specific array of decimals: 3.14159ÄÄÄÄ265359... The Ä´s can´t be there: it´s a continuous sequence of decimal numbers. There is no break/”empty region” in the continuous decimals of pi just as there is no region of the size-range that can be empty of energymass.
In this chapter I´ve written something akin to “
first
there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification unless you consider that the size-axis of the size-time-diagram is infinite),
then
there was E=mc
2
,
then
there was energymass summoned into the smallest spaces available (available = considered to be within an event horizon and empty)”. This harkens back to previous lectures´ talk about “alien logic” (how exoplanets think). To have it make sense to our brains we use the time-
distinctions “first, then and then” but the real distinction is not in time but in steps in a sequence of logic. In other words all the mentioned steps happened simultaneously to start the Big Bang: E=mc
2
was true as soon as there was spacetime, and as soon as there was that, energymass appeared as not to make the universe absurd (by it talking gibberish or it having an empty region like in fig. 6).
The end of the Big Bang
Telescopes observe that “space is being born” i.e. that the distances between clumps of energymass (galaxies) are getting larger, and at an accelerating pace too. Not only does the Hubble law state that an object a
million light
-
years
away would be receding from us at 21 km/sec and at double the distance twice the speed, but the law states that that speed (for example 21 km/sec a million light years away) is increasing. This is called accelerating cosmic expansion. It means that from our galaxy, when/if we look into the sky trillions of years in the future, we´d see no trace of any other galaxy let alone the cosmic microwave background (because their speeds have passed the speed of light and thus went beyond the event horizon). Once that object a million light years away from us which today is racing away at 21 km/sec reaches 299792 km/sec (the speed of light), it will pass from being within our event horizon to being outside our sphere of events.
This empties our universe or as Hitchens put it: “nothingness is coming”. Once that nothingness comes we have our starting point where we run through the logic of E=mc
2
–> “if it is mentioned it must exist/be summoned” (in order for the universe not to talk gibberish or the infinite size-range not to have a break in it) –> energymass begins as dense (because of relativity and because E=mc
2
is true everywhere simultaneously/equally).
We observe that nothingness (within event horizons) is coming, and beginning from nothingness there is unintuitive logic that has a predictive quality to it: the Big Bang should start dense. This theory works well with lecture 2´s proofs for that “there is more to Reality than can be represented” (the size-time-diagram is infinite) because size is essentially space, and space and time are intertwined into a single spacetime – hence: if size/space is infinite then time must be infinite too. In other words we have reoccurring Big Bangs interspersed along the time-axis of our size-time-diagram. As soon as a region bound by an event horizon becomes empty we have the universe´s no-nonsense-laws kicking in and E=mc
2
summons energymass (in the smallest sizes that are empty equally/simultaneously).
The sequence of consecutive Big Bangs´ beginnings (emptiness leading to energymass being summoned) and ends (accelerating cosmic expansion speeding things past a point´s event horizon and emptiness being summoned) are as infinite as the time-axis proved to be based on lecture 2´s proofs. Proving (in lecture 2) that spacetime is infinite fits perfectly with the reoccurring Big Bangs (when somethingness becomes emptiness and then emptiness summons somethingness).
There will in other words, between the beginning of a Big Bang and the end of that same Big Bang, be life within the conscious/human size-range (the different locations of that size already being infinitely many, see fig. 4).
Each size along the size-axis is defined as “3-dimensional infinite space” meaning there is infinitely much life with access to universal science (i.e. some version of this lecture-series), and within our region (bound by an event horizon) there is life between the beginning and end of Big Bangs. In addition I have hard to believe that a reproducing shape (and thus evolution) only occurs in only
one
size-range (the, for humans, knowable size-range) in an infinite size-range: there ought to be many sub-size-ranges as part of the infinite size-range where evolution occurs and can reach scientific knowledge. All life mentioned above, if they reach scientific understanding, would concur on the existential theory presented in these lectures (especially lecture 3 – the three pillars/foundations/ideas which together become a minimalist theory for why there is the infinite size-range of energymasspacetime in the first place).
This is not only exoplanet science – it is science between Big Bangs and it is science in regions of the size-axis far away (in size) from our knowable size-range. See fig. 7.
Summary
First we looked at Descartes’ ”thought exists” and ”the self exists”, claimed that it was two valid statements and pointed out the distinction between them. On the other side of the paper we wanted to represent anti-distinction (the opposite of distinction) defined as “that of which all is part” (Reality), and realized that since thinker/thought is stuck on the left side of the paper we can’t represent Reality. This is not only Kant’s “the thing is not the thing itself (the mental map is not the real territory)” but more importantly whatever cannot be taken to represent “that of which all is part” i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality.
All we know about Reality (atoms, humans, galaxies) fit into a size-time-diagram (every object has a size and a time), so the minimalist approach combining the above paragraph with this one is to use the first paragraph to prove that the size-time diagram has infinite
axes. This in turn leads to an existential theory which can be summed up as “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime” – and it has a predictive quality to it: somewhere in such an existence there would be a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape and thus we get reproduction/evolution.
So far we’ve looked at the theory of why size itself exists, why there is something rather than nothing – an existential theory beginning from certain truth and logically building its way up all the way to predicting evolution.
Part 2: Evolution
My explanation of evolution focuses on how important disease and bullying (power) was for evolution.
Power
means that
fish
were
fighting fish breeding more agressive fish = dinosaurs, then wolfpacks with an alpha male.
But even before and after those eras in evolution the rule of power was in play.
In part one we had an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime (including the intertwinedness-separation-opposition and the time-axis with repeating Big Bangs perpendicular to the size-axis) that predicts a reproducing shape i.e. a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape: reproduction in an infinite size-range.
This infinite size-range predicts reproduction.
Part one was about why there is a sizescale of energymasspacetime: the answers are that the sizescale is infinite and that energymass is in spacetime. It predicts that there should be a reproducing shape: say that it is a triangle which gathers surrounding lines into a similar triangle – then it has reproduced itself. The products of this reproduction obey three rules: directly when there was reproduction three rules came into play, I´ve listed them below as 1, 2, 3 but they are not in order (they came simultaneously):
1:
There is life and death: those who survive survive and those who die are not in the game anymore. “The surviving survive”. It´s so simple – we see it in everyday life today. But everything in evolution will come back to these three rules so we might as well do the banal and bring them up.
So directly when there was a reproducing shape - so in our part of the size-range a DNA-strand which split in the middle and became two DNA-strands – the copy either survived or died.
2: The second rule is that the number of offspring has significance. That is to say: if you get one child or five children or ten children, there is a difference between those numbers – and in evolution it´s a benefit to have more children. One can also have zero children, and that is approximately like being dead.
Some would say that evolution´s meaning (the main task of life) is to make more offspring – that it´s the scientific meaning of life – Nature´s meaning: to reproduce. But I would answer that evolution makes more offspring (that´s reproduction) and making more offspring gives evolutionary benefits, but Nature itself does not care – it does not care about whether we nuke ourselves or not. There is no God that looks upon us and cares. Even reproduction becomes meaningless in the larger perspective. But in evolution it has significance whether one has zero offspring or ten offspring.
Rule number two (number of offspring matters) just as simple as rule number 1 (that there is life and death; that some live and some die).
4.54
Author
yonis
Posted on
25/11/2016
25/11/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Latest version (1)
Under construction
v2-3
Author
yonis
Posted on
24/11/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Under construction
Summary (within 18 pages)
Summary
First we looked at Descartes’ ”thought exists” and ”the self exists”, claimed that it was two valid statements and pointed out the distinction between them. On the other side of the paper we wanted to represent anti-distinction (the opposite of distinction) defined as “that of which all is part” (Reality), and realized that since thinker/thought is stuck on the left side of the paper we can’t represent Reality. This is not only Kant’s “the thing is not the thing itself (the mental map is not the real territory)” but more importantly whatever cannot be taken to represent “that of which all is part” i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality.
All we know about Reality (atoms, humans, galaxies) fit into a size-time-diagram (every object has a size and a time), so the minimalist approach combining the above paragraph with this one is to use the first paragraph to prove that the size-time diagram has infinite axees. This in turn leads to an existential theory which can be summed up as “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime” – and it has a predictive quality to it: somewhere in such an existence there would be a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape and thus we get reproduction/evolution.
So far we’ve looked at the theory of why size itself exists, why there is something rather than nothing – an existential theory beginning from certain truth and logically building its way up all the way to predicting evolution.
Author
yonis
Posted on
20/11/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Summary (within 18 pages)
Del 2: Evolutionsteorin
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/del2-interse-evolution.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
14/11/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Del 2: Evolutionsteorin
18 page summary
Download V2 (28 page summary) as word document by clicking here
Lecture 1
Descartes
One of the aims of this course is to get EVERYONE to agree so that they have the same associations between scientific concepts.
There is no other proper way to accomplish this goal than by starting with certain truth, which was found by Descartes in the 1600s. He lived in a time where they believed in demons, Gods etc. so he postulated a thought experiment where he assumed an almighty demon was fooling him in everything he could be fooled in: what would remain as certain truth – what could he not be fooled in?
If he was being fooled, where would still be a “he” (or self) there to be fooled, meaning that the self certainly exists. A self is necessary for a self to be fooled.
Descartes had thus concluded his own existence.
Being fooled is thinking – thus thought exists. “There is thought” Descartes concluded as certain truth. The word “fooling” represents a thought-process.
Descartes found the starting-position for any inquiry about truth: we can know certainly that thinker and thought exists.
Distinction exists (a logical conclusion from the above)
Looking at what we´ve found as certain truth so far “from above” (meta), we can take the next logical step – adding a third factoid to our 2-statement (A and B above) starting position: that there is distinction (
between
thinker and thought). The fact that thinker and thought are two separate entities concluded to be certain truth
s
through two
different
logical pathway
s
lets us conclude that “distinction exists”
. There are what Chinese philosophy calls “the ten thousand things” (referring to the world) – there are at least two (three if we include “distinction” as th
e third thing) certain entities, and empirically we know there are “ten thousand things” (not taking the number 10 000 literally but just referring to multiplicity).
First universal diagram
We can draw the thinker and thought and distinction between them as two dots with a line between them on a piece of paper (fig. 1).
Now we have something all religions agree on
– we´ve drawn up ideas and associations between them. Everyone ought to have the same associations (explanatory thoughts) between the concepts we´ve looked at so far.
We have, if you will – in figure 1 – a universal diagram.
Reality
We have the capability to conglomerate many separate entities under the rubric of a single category. If we use this capability to collect the “ten thousand things” (distinct entities) we´ve found so far into a single thing, we ought to give that thing a word/name. Its definition can be “that of which all is part” and “the opposite of separation/distinction”. I will use the word Reality to refer to this all-encompassing thing.
In lecture 2 I will present three proofs for that “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, but for now we can draw (adding to figure 1) a dot with a cross over it – the cross to symbolize that the dot itself is a false representation of Reality because we (the observer/self/thinker) should be part of that dot. See fig 2.
Thinking about what we´ve got so far
Thinking about what we´ve got so far (fig. 2) it’s a bundle of associations which make universal inter-religious (all religions agree on it) knowledge with both words and pictures.
In the next lecture I present why the line in fig 2 (see fig 3) represents the opposition/antagonism/disagreement/contraposition/divergence/variance between the two sides of the paper; between “thinker and thought” on one side of the paper and “Reality (that of which all is part; the opposite of separation)” on the other side of the paper.
Worth noting now is that the left side of the paper represents separation/distinction whilst the right side of the paper represents the opposite of separation/distinction – both are legitimate ideas: thinker and thought – and distinction – is certain truth based on Descartes and we all know which idea we refer to when talking about the all-encompassing [that of which all is part] Reality.
In the next lecture we will talk about why the line in fig. 3 makes it so that we can´t see Reality – I will present three proofs like in a crime case, and we will talk about what we can see if we can´t see Reality.
Making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far
1
See fig. 1 again: it´s our starting-point and the thinking that occurs in it happens in Descartes “realm of mind”; it is the mind´s realm (the left side of the paper) in which the thinking happens, and one thing we talk about is Reality on the right side of the paper in fig 3. Since the line in fig. 3 represents both the legitimacy of the ideas on both sides of the paper, and simultaneously the opposition between separation/distinction (on the left side of the paper) and [the opposite of separation/distinction] on the right side of the paper. That opposition is important and I will show its significance in lecture 2.
2
Starting from Descartes realm (of if you will: assuming that all we know is what we know for certain), we have the capability to state that there is a single Reality of which all is part – so even though we see separation we must grant that that separation (all entities) fits into a category we call Reality. There is a unifying whole even though the human mind (Descartes realm) is limited in its ways when it tries to contemplate Reality.
Not only is there the map-territory distinction (which will be presented as one out of three proofs in lecture 2), but there is also a more fundamental opposition between distinction and its opposite (there is a more fundamental opposition between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3). Not only are we stuck in the map-territory-distinction-realm but we also can conclude that no representation (regardless of the mind) is equal to Reality (on a more fundamental
level than the map-territory-problem).
Representation is done in the brain using neurons and in a computer using electrons, but there is no reason why the most distant atom or quark couldn´t be proposed to be a symbol for [that of which all is part] – and even in that brainless scenario we will see in lecture 2 that “that of which all is part cannot be represented”. The map-territory-distinction is just proof/evidence number two in lecture 2 (for that we cannot see Reality and thus, since we do see/represent something, there must be more to Reality than can be represented i.e. the size-time-diagram (presented in lecture
2) is infinite along both axes.
Proof 3 in lecture 2 removes the brain from the equation and still proves that there is more to Reality than can be seen/represented/symbolized (using any means/any method – even without a brain), and since some representation is obviously (since we know that there are minds) possible, there must be more than can be represented/contemplated i.e. the size-axis is infinite and the time-axis is infinite in that two-axis diagram.
3
Both sides of the paper in fig. 3 are legitimate ideas. But still they are opposites (separation on one side and the opposite of separation on the other side). How can two derived-from-logic sides of the paper be opposites but still both be legitimate?
Usually opposition – like between Democrats and Republicans – means that one is right and the other is wrong; they can´t both simultaneously be right: you can´t meaningfully vote for both parties at the same time.
The case is different between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3: both sides are right and they are opposites.
There is a single Reality and there is multiplicity in distinction.
What does this mean? That there is more to the size-time-diagram than anything could represent – any representation fails (you can think of some examples/suggestions for how to represent [that of which all is part]/[the opposite of separation]) – and thus the axes on the size-time-diagram are infinite. This is a hither to unpresented fact in science – it is new science: some of the best scientists ignorantly believe that the size-range is limited/finite.
4
We have quite a few associations and symbols in fig. 3 which must be agreed upon, and here I´m using the word “must” in the sense that “by the rules of logic X must be true”. Other civilizations throughout the infinitely many galaxies there are use the exact same ideas (but in a different language) and have the same associations between them (that there are infinitely many galaxies is derived from that the size-axis in the size-time-diagram is infinite). There is distinction as the third truth to be added to Descartes two fundamental truths (thinker and thought exist), and all that is opposed to (on the other side of the paper in fig. 3) to the all-encompassing Reality which is defined using at least two definitions: that of which all is part and the opposite of separation.
I´m tri-lingual but I write the same ideas and associate them in the same ways no matter which language I write in – its universal science beginning from certain truth. On other planets that have civilizations my writings in this book ought to match up quite near to the writings creating the same lecture series based on universal science that I´m creating
– “alien”/exo-planet
lecture series proceed, beginning from certain fact, through logical steps as I do.
5
[Thinker and thought] (certain truth) and thus distinction/separation are associated through negation/opposition to the right side of the paper in figure 3: Reality. The left side is not the right
side just like separation is not its opposites. Both being legitimate ideas, though, connects them in the way that thinker and thought (and all other distinct entities) are in the category Reality.
Even though Reality and distinction are opposites, distinction dwells in (as a sub-entity within the category) Reality.
The associations between the left and right sides of the paper in figure 3 are both united through the notion “opposition” and through the notion that distinction is inherent in Reality (Reality being the opposite of distinction
because we have all-encompassing and its opposite: composite parts).
6
It is certainly true that all is part of a single Reality; but it is equally true that in every observation there is an observer and hence distinction (between thinker and thought). We see separate entities is as true as that the self that we are is not in front of us – but everything we see (thought/object) is in front of us.
That is evidence 1 in lecture 2 (not a proof, but a mere suggestion/evidence that [that of which all is part cannot be observed] and thus there is more to Reality than our concept of [infinitely much].
All we know about Reality has two properties: a size and a time. Size and time are two axes on a diagram, and thus all we know fits into the size-time-diagram (every object or location in space has a size and time).
There is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram because all suggested representors for Reality fail
(for three reasons taken up in lecture 2).
7
All
bundles of associations in this chapter “making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far”
are written in order to create some universal brain structures (universal because science is the same everywhere (on all exo-planets), and their brains make the same associations too eventually). It´s not some random bundle of associations nor did I randomly present random ideas.
I assume the brain structure created by understanding this book is a replica of something derived from science; a replica of brain structures on the infinitely many other civilization-bearing planets. It´s a universal “ideology”, if you will.
Everyone has a possibility of sharing it in agreement – and future lectures will add a whole lot of complexity to it; agreement tends to build friendship so study is a way of bringing more peace to the world.
Once the full world-view is presented throughout this book, it´s a way of pacifying the world.
8
We have two brain-halves: one linguistic and one visual. So far we´ve both drawn pictorial representations and connected words – both brain-halves have been working. The connections across corpus collosum (which sits between the brain-halves and connects them) that connect a linguistic narrative/explanation to the pictorial representations are one day found in all humans thanks to science. Our brains are becoming more as science has a propensity to make them be.
This course itself, since it begins with certain truths and builds upon it logically, is a universal course (to the best of my ability).
The brain cells that constitute the negation (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 3) or opposition are not the same kind of cells (they are inhibitory neurons) that connect thinker with though as both being certain truths (but the thinker is not the thought and thus has inhibitory cells making that brain-structure work too
(what you are is not in front of you;
what you are is not visible).
Since both Reality and [what you are]/self/observer/thinker are invisible the brain might erroneously and spontaneously try to associate them, so a brain-structure is needed to inhibit that association (and replace it with a more complex explanation). That
spontaneous but erroneous association is something all thinking animals throughout the universe evolved to do, and the inhibition of it through culture/civilizing/science is universally available within complex enough civilizations throughout the universe.
As you can see the brain structures responsible for doing this thing are quite complex, but also universal and thus accessible to all humans, and predictably will someday be in all humans (fostering agreement, thus friendship, thus peace).
Lecture 2
Perceive, apprehend, notice are synonyms for our representing ability, but I will use the word “see” or “observe” to refer to all of these. The goal of this lecture is to prove the statement “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, Reality being defined as “that of which all is part”. In other words: we cannot see Reality, and thus there is more to Reality than even can be contemplated (i.e. infinitely much).
I will build this lecture like a criminal court case: I will present three proofs for that we cannot see Reality i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated i.e. (since we can contemplate anything (right or wrong)) Reality is infinite.
Since anything/everything we know about Reality has some size and time, it fits into a size-time-diagram. See fig. 4.
In fig. 4 size is represented along the vertical axis and time along the horizontal axis. The objects humans see in everyday life (from the horizon to a single cell as one “pixel” in our visual field) are marked in “the human range”.
See fig 5.
In fig. 5 I´ve drawn the same diagram as in fig. 4 but this time with infinity-symbols in each corner of the squareical size-time-diagram. Two infinite axes become a square.
Proof number 3 in our “court case” for proving that the size-time-diagram (Reality) is infinite has us imagine the unobservable separatenessless Reality and ask whether there is a maximum or minimum size to/in it (a maximum/minimum being separateness while we are talking about the opposite of separation). This is again to confirm that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes.
The line we drew in fig. 4 was for separating the two sides of the paper; opposing “thinker and thought” (distinction) with its opposite: one all-encompassing non-distinction Reality. That opposition-line is what this lecture is about since it proves that the two sides of the paper are separate/opposing realms and we are stuck in one realm as long as we are observers (because observation is separation/distinction (thinker and thought)).
Proving that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes is new science because it poses the question: what happened before the Big Bang (14 billion years ago), and it presents one pillar of our existential theory: that each size is the reason for each next and previous size, and the size axis is infinite, meaning the “beginning” of the relationship between sizes keeps retreating into infinity the more we contemplate the range of the size axis.
When I presented fig. 4 for the first time I drew a cross over the dot symbolizing Reality for the plain reason that we (as observers) should be part of that dot, and by the very nature of us being separate (and the dot representing the opposite of separation) we should draw a cross over it symbolizing that we cannot see it.
The main proof though is that even if all observers were dead there´d still be, inherent and fundamental in nature, the opposition between distinction and distinction´s opposite (the two sides of the paper in fig. 4). The line is an opposition-line and it is more fundamental than being dependent on humans/observers – it refers to all representation whether it’s using/including humans or not. I am, in other words, not talking about the map-territory distinction (which symbolizes that humans have mental maps and not the real world per se; like Kant said: we have “the thing” and not “the thing itself”). Proof 2 – the opposition-line between the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 – is not subjective: it is true that we live with the map-territory-distinction but even if I died there´d still be
separate things (chairs separate from cups), that kind of separation is not dependent on me/observers. Simultaneously the flipside of the coin (the other side of the paper in fig. 4) is true too: all is one single Reality (the opposite of separation). Proof 2, in other words, should not be interpreted as signifying the map-territory distinction (human subjectivity) but instead a fundamental opposition in the universe.
If we do not see Reality, then what do we see? Everything we see fits into the size-time-diagram, and since the opposition-line in fig. 4 shows that there is a fundamental rule that states, in 3 different proofs, that Reality is infinite / there is more than can even be contemplated / there is more than even non-subjective representation can represent.
Proof number 1 is really weaker than a “proof” – it´s more like evidence. It wouldn´t hold up in a court but it is a way of stating what the other proofs too point towards. Proof 1 is what we saw when presenting figure 4: any dot representing Reality is an incorrect representation because the observer should be part of the object – the thinker should be part of the thought. It denies Cartesian separation and thus is untrue, meaning that anything we draw on the right side of the paper in fig. 4 is incorrect.
We can contemplate anything: we can speculate about what´s smaller than quantum physics, or even what´s smaller than that, etc. into infinity. We are probably wrong, but any contemplation/representation counts as a contemplation – and since we know that, whether right or wrong as our contemplations may be, there is more to Reality than can be contemplated, it follows that there must be infinitely much to Reality. Since all we know about Reality fits into a size-time-diagram, the minimalist approach is to state that it´s the size-time-diagram that is infinite.
This warrants two new words: the knowable/known size-range and the infinite size-range. The knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range. Since Einstein unified space (size) and time, one cannot be infinite without the other one being the same. Science today doesn´t know whether there was a “before” to the Big Bang or not (whether time was created at the Big Bang), but now we know that the Big Bang is just an event on an infinite time axis. In a future lecture we will talk about how/why the Big Bang recreates (happens over and over).
We talked about universal diagrams (and universal brain-structures) in lecture 1. The size-time-diagram is one major universal diagram. A lot of detail can be added to it because all fields of science fit into it. The infinity-symbols on each axis of the squareical diagram are drawn, based on science, on exo-planets with advanced enough civilizations.
This lecture is about proving that [that of which all is part] (the opposite of separation) i.e. Reality cannot be observed/represented, and that this fact is true irrespective of whether we are observers or dead, and applying this to the size-time-diagram (which gets its infinity-symbols into the squareical diagram).
Proof number 2 (the main proof) is the oppositional approach between Reality and distinction, and it is not subjective because Reality and Reality´s opposite exist even if we were dead. Proof number 3 is about imagining (even though no imagination is it) Reality as a big gray (because energymass is white and spacetime is black) solid, in which we know no observer should be (because observation is separation) – does it have separation i.e. a biggest and a smallest size? No, because such distinctions
are not in the opposite of distinction (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 4).
I´ve mentioned universal associations in the brain / exo-planet science, so talking about the size-time-diagram we can add more universal notions to it: why did I draw upwards on the size axis as larger and downward as smaller? Why is the time-axis horizontally drawn instead of vertically? The diagram works even if we would define the vertical axis as time and the horizontal axis as size – so why do we draw size vertically and time horizontally? Is it universal i.e. on other planets or just a human convention like writing from left to right in English-speaking countries and right to left in Arabic-speaking countries?
Evolution has it so that during the history of science telescopes look upward and microscopes look downward. This would be the case on other planets too: they turn their heads upward to see the large and downward (onto a table) to see the small; the opposite can´t be true on any planet. Thus we get the size axis´ standard (of upward being larger) from evolution / the history of science. I use the word “standard” because it comes from evolution rather than being more fundamentally hard-wired into the universe such as the fact that the size-time-diagram is a square with infinity symbols. That the size-time-diagram is a square is not a standard – it is something stronger than that. The fact that we represent time on the vertical axis (and upward as larger) comes from a weaker source: tradition (even though that same tradition is true on all planets; evolution, in this regard, happens the same on all planets that end up with civilizations).
We thus have added standards or weak conventions (derived from history) in addition to having strong diagrams like the size-time-diagram being a square. The distinction between the two is made based on science and is thus made on exo-planets.
Scientists are looking for exo-planets that bear civilizations. If the size-range is infinite – as we´ve proven that it is – then each particular size (like the human range in fig. 5) is infinite too; if the largest is infinitely large then there is, considering the size of a human, an infinite distance in any direction that that human could find itself in. This makes civilizations on other planets a must, not an assumption. The known/knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range, and within the known size-range there is a range in which evolution occurs (between the smallest cells and the biggest organisms), and since we´ve proven that there are infinitely many objects within/of that size-range, then there must be infinitely many locations in which evolution occurs.
In the next lecture we will bind together the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 (distinction and distinction´s opposite; “thinker and thought” opposing Reality) with E=mc
2
(energymasspacetime) and with the infinity of the size-time axes, into a single existential theory which is a rival to “God created earth in 6 days…” The existential theory is a minimalist account for why there is a sizescale in the first place, and why there is something (energymass) rather than nothing (spacetime). It reminds me of this passage: “HITCHENS: In other words, as the great physicist Laplace said when he demonstrated his working model (his orrery, as it’s called) of the solar system to the emperor and Napoleon said, “Well I see there’s no God in this system,” and Laplace said, “Well, Your Majesty, it works without that assumption.””
In this chapter I´ve presented three proofs for that the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in it i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated; we do represent something but however we
choose to represent (even representations that can be proposed as thought-experiments if we were dead) we do not represent Reality i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality. Are there any counter-arguments saying that the size-time-diagram is finite? I built this lecture like a court case and I´d like to hear the opposing side. There are no arguments that oppose what I´ve proven so far.
Lecture 3
E=mc
2
E=mc
2
as an equation is only used in relativistic scenarios such as very high speed or very high energy, but since speed is a continuum the equation is true at slower speeds. There is a difference between the equation being applicable (being needed while solving equations) and it being true; it is always true everywhere but it is not needed for equations except in special scenarios.
An example of the equation being true everywhere and always is this: nuclear power-plants turn mass (kilograms) into energy (joule), so that if you input 1 kg of uranium-mass you get out 99.9999 kg of waste products – some of the mass turned into energy which lights our light-bulbs. The atoms that lost some weight (that weight was converted into energy) are atoms just like other kinds of atoms, for example in autumn leaves. If you´d drop leaves into the core of the sun, the sun´s nuclear furnace would turn mass in the leaves into energy (light). Hence all objects are subject to the E=mc
2
-rule, which states that energy (E) equals mass (m). This warrants the word energymass because they are no longer two distinct things – they are but different manifestations of the same thing. In the brain energymass should be a single idea whilst the concepts “energy and mass” refers to two different forms of a single idea.
Verbs and adjectives tend to refer to energy (shining, running, etc.) while nouns refer to mass (body, tree, etc.) E=mc
2
states that the two (verbs/adjectives and nouns) are together in a single equation. Although only applicable in relativistic scenarios (the role of relativism becomes close to zero in everyday human events, except that our light-bulbs shine because mass turns into energy and the sun can makes leaves into light), E=mc
2
is in a “philosophical” sense true everywhere and always just like Pythagoras’s theorem about triangles remains “philosophically true” even where there are no physical triangles. You wouldn´t say 1=1 is not true in empty space just because there are no objects there to count as “1”.
In addition to energymass being a single concept (and not two distinct ones), spacetime gets added into the mix by the c
2
-part of the equation. c is the speed of light (km/h) and thus a distance (space) over time – spacetime! Energymass (E=m) and spacetime (c
2
) should in the brain be represented by a single idea which we can call energymasspacetime. This harkens back to the previous lectures about Reality, which is a synonym for energymasspacetime. Einstein invented the equation E=mc
2
and thus unified in it energymass with spacetime – and synonyms for energymass are “existence” or “1” while synonyms for spacetime are “non-existence”, “emptiness”, “nothing” and “zero”. There is no more to be considered regarding Reality than energymasspacetime; energymasspacetime involves everything (energymass) and nothing (spacetime) so there is nothing more to be considered/added to Reality –
Reality is energymasspacetime; everything is included into Reality once we have defined Reality as energymasspacetime.
The Existential Theory
Each culture seems to have a creation myth (such as genesis) – the creation of the cosmos/world/Reality is something humans have invented hypotheses for during millennia. The stories answer the question “why are we here?”
The true answer is unintuitive. First of all: why is there any particular size? What justifies, say, the size of a molecule? The answer is: the smaller and the larger (the rest of the size-range). Atoms justify a molecule and a molecule exhibits a place for atoms to live in: justifies atoms. Humans need an earth to dwell on (the earth is larger) and humans are made of cells (cells are smaller). Each size bears a relationship upon each other size – the smaller justify the larger and the larger justify the smaller. Since the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all four corners of the square (because of the proof where we had two sides of a paper), the size-range is infinite i.e. the pattern of justification between/amongst sizes continues into the infinitely large and infinitely small. What the ancients called “the first cause” keeps retreating into infinity size-wise the more we contemplate it. The size-range is like a fractal: you can keep zooming in or out infinitely much, and the question “why is there this particular object that I see” has its answer in the relationship between all the sizes: justification. Infinite justification is the reason why there is a size-range at all. But there is more that is needed for a full-fledged existential theory: two more factors play their roles.
Spacetime is emptier than we can imagine/represent it. We (and all representeurs) are energymass and thus are the opposite of spacetime. We could let a piece of empty space represent spacetime, but as soon as we use energymass (such as our brains) to do so, we´ve lost the truly empty nature of spacetime: it is unimaginably empty. Any bundle of neurons, no matter how we wire it, is still the opposite of what they want to represent when they want to present us with spacetime. It is therefore useful to have two concepts for spacetime: (1) our simplest intuition of spacetime and (2) additional defining language explaining that spacetime is emptier than (1). This is how exoplanet civilizations would wire their brains regarding the concept “spacetime” too, just because it’s the most accurate science they can manage.
Just like energy and mass are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon, energymass and spacetime are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon. What does it mean for spacetime to be bundled together with (intertwined with) energymass? Everything exists as/in/because of nothing; 1 exists in 0; energymass and spacetime are together in the E=mc
2
-equation. Where could energymass/existence exist? In nothingness. Just like sizes justify one another, spacetime justifies energymass.
The last question that remains, after we have justification between sizes in an infinite size-range, and that all points in the size-time-diagram are made of energymasspacetime (and energymass is justified by it being in spacetime), is the objective fact that there both is a single Reality (the right side of the paper) and there´s its opposite: distinction (between, say, thinker and thought).
The existential theory builds on three “pillars”/fundamental ideas:
An infinite sizescale,
Energymasspacetime as in the equation E=mc
2
Distinction between distinction itself and distinction´s opposite (see fig. 1, 2, 3):
Between distinction (the left side of the paper, our 2 certain truths: I exist and there is thought) and Reality (the opposite of distinction; one Reality (not plural)) there is a line that demarcates distinction/opposition.
Putting it all into one phrase we might say: “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime with opposition between distinction and Oneness”. At its core it´s three ideas (infinite size-time-diagram, energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
), separation and intertwinedness (the two sides of the paper)). On exoplanets they would state their reason for their own existence using these three ideas too,
because taken together they explain all that needs to be explained: first thing that comes to mind is that in the stated existential theory there must be a reproducing shape (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape; a DNA-strand) somewhere. If the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all three corners, then evolution ought to occur somewhere (and be made of energymass in spacetime, while being separate/distinct in a single intertwined Reality).
Most creation-myths have a quite simple (one-pillared) and mundane story: for example genesis just states that God created Reality (that of which all is part) in 6 days and rested on the 7
th
. The scientific rival to all such creation stories is a three-pillared theory – we can´t make it any simpler (we can´t make it one-pillared) and the same would be the case on exoplanets: they too can only break it down to three interconnected ideas/pillars/fundaments, so in thinking this way we share a common intellectual history with exoplanet civilizations advanced enough to figure out this existential theory.
On a test on this subject a question might be: “what are the three pillars of the existential theory?” – the question can´t be “what is the most important pillar in the existential theory?” All pillars are equally important but constitute as distinct ideas as E=mc
2
is from infinite size, or the separation-intertwinedness-opposition (fig. 3).
This three-pillared creation story – the sum of these three chapters – is built upon logic: it includes certain truths like “I think and I exist” (distinction/separation), its opposite (Reality for which we have three proofs for that it can´t be observed/seen/contemplated i.e. the size-time-diagram is infinite), E=mc
2
which unifies nothing/spacetime with existence/energymass, and the relationship between any two sizes (justification along the infinite size-range). Every one of these ideas relates very closely to Descartes´ certain truth, meaning we can be sure of the ideas themselves – and they together build up a minimalist existential theory which needs no further logic to explain everything there is.
Having an infinite size-range has a predictive quality to it too – it makes a prediction: there ought to be evolution (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar mass) somewhere in the diversity we see throughout even the known size-range.
Though as non-intuitive as the 3-pillar existential theory may be to our evolved brains who want a single conclusion, exoplanet civilizations have the same limits and biases as us: they too are stuck with three pillars in a single theory to make the theory explainable. Science is creating universal (exoplanet) neural pathways in our brains. We should embrace the fact that by being non-intuitive but true, this science wires our brain based on science and thus universally. It is the way (the wiring) that all planets are headed to if they´re into science. It´s a universal world-view. We´re thinking like aliens.
In current scientific debates the religious will argue that faith (in a dogma) is needed to (what they call) “understand” the existence of the universe. If confronted with my theory (these lectures) they´d have to agree that logic makes their God unnecessary as a pillar of creation. In the best case scenario God is simply a synonym for Reality (because Reality is “that of which all is part” and thus God ought to be part of it too, and all we know about Reality is that it is energymass in spacetime and separation in intertwinedness).
Having an explanation – the negative side of it is it being three-pillared and unintuitive, the positive side of it being that it accounts for all of Reality and predicts evolution – further justifies the saying “a
God of the gaps” (meaning the more we understand the less we need God). Now all that remains to be understood – again in an unintuitive but identical to exoplanets -way – is how, on an infinite time-line, the Big Bang (denseness) recreates and fades away into sparseness (black holes removing energymass and dark energy creating more space until no galaxies are anymore visible).
Lecture 4
The beginning of the Big Bang
I have a hard time imagining how the universe can reach complete emptiness, but it wouldn´t be the first time the universe´s nature surpasses human intuition. In the history of science stars were observed to not move relative to one another on the night sky, and this was argued to prove that the size of the universe was much smaller than the now known size – it was argued that the universe would be “unreasonably big” if the stars didn´t seem to move relative to one another as the earth moved because they were so far away.
If only enough time is needed for the universe to become empty, then we get the starting scenario which is most reasonable: we start with emptiness (spacetime). Again, spacetime is emptier than our concept for it because we (and our concepts) are made of energymass.
If you move your hand one meter (from position 1 to position 2), the laws of nature that make your hand make sense were already in place in the space of position 2 before you moved your hand there. It´s not like the universe/spacetime was absurd in location 2 and only started to make sense regarding hands when you moved your hand there. We do not impact the laws of nature in such ways; instead the laws of nature are simultaneously and equally true at all locations and all times. In other words: Pythagoras’s theorem is true even in locations where there are no objects whatsoever, but the theorem is only applicable (to be applied) to triangles. In empty space there are no objects and thus no triangles, but Pythagoras´s theorem is true there anyhow – it does not suddenly become true (switch from being untrue to true) when a triangle is imagined or physically moved there. This applies to E=mc
2
too, which is just as much of a law of nature as Pythagoras´s theorem. E=mc
2
is true everywhere and always, though humans only apply (use) the equation in certain scenarios. Where triangles can be (in spacetime) there is also E=mc
2
. Laws of nature are fundamental and inherent in spacetime and do not come about depending on events (though our application/use of any particular equation is dependent on which event we´re analyzing).
There is distinction between the practical use of equations (to solve problems or understand a phenomenon) and the core nature of spacetime having laws of nature in it. Spacetime is a no-nonsense spacetime – we live in a rational (laws of nature-abiding) universe.
One law being E=mc
2
and another one being “if it is said it must exist” (meaning energymass can´t be mentioned in the laws of nature of spacetime without energymass existing), we get spacetime to summon energymass if the starting-point was complete emptiness. “If energymass is mentioned it must be summoned” (it is mentioned in E=mc
2
) is true because it would be a nonsense universe if it “talks” about energymass without there being any – just infinite space for eternity with laws of
nature regarding energymass, but never any energymass appearing/being present. It would be a nonsense universe if energymass it mentioned but never exists. It would be akin to the universe telling lies (having all these rules like E=mc
2
but never applying them to anything), or the universe babbling gibberish (having inapplicable laws of nature).
Thus, E=mc
2
being a core property of spacetime itself and the “no gibberish”-rule applying, energymass must logically be summoned – but how and where? Extremely dense i.e. everywhere, in the smallest spaces, simultaneously. Why? Our starting-point is spacetime, which needs no prior justification because it is the opposite of existence: it doesn´t exist – it is emptier than our neurons make it out to be. In it Einstein´s theory of relativity is true, meaning that there is no center point (or in other words: all points are the center) so there is no center to the Big Bang. Another way of seeing it is that as soon as there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification), E=mc
2
became true in all locations (in the smallest spaces) simultaneously – no point in space was before another in having E=mc
2
be true in it. Spacetime having E=mc
2
as a core property has E=mc
2
be true everywhere simultaneously; once we have the launching-condition of empty spacetime, through E=mc
2
, energymass is summoned everywhere simultaneously.
This “everywhere” is all things within an event horizon, meaning that things moving away faster than the speed of light (due to dark energy/accelerating cosmic expansion) are not within our event horizon: they are not part of what can be reasonably called “our 3-dimensional space” (from our location). Things are not part of our universe once their speed hits faster than the speed of light – and many locations, within the boundaries of their respective event horizons, will one day have all energymass moving away from them at speeds faster than the speed of light (this is just the observed fact of accelerating cosmic expansion). Such a finite space with no energymass within its event horizon (all energymass moving away faster than the speed of light) would constitute “completely empty space” i.e. our starting-point for the Big Bang (energymass being summoned due to E=mc
2
).
Consider an infinite size-range - it is made of energymasspacetime: if we draw it as the Y-axis on a diagram, there can´t be a region/length in it (such as the knowable size-range) which is completely empty forever. See fig. 6.
Because of the rules E=mc
2
and “if it is mentioned it must be summoned”/”no-nonsense universe” are true throughout the infinite size-range, there can´t be a region with just spacetime (with its laws of nature) because the laws of spacetime mention energymass; spacetime is inherently tied to and intertwined with energymass – existence and non-existence go together (at all sizes). There would be no logical breaking-point (a particular size) where energymasspacetime transitions into being just spacetime for a range of sizes and then transitions back into energymasspacetime; there is no logical breaking-point where the implications of E=mc
2
(the implication being: energymass and spacetime are in the same equation) stop to be true. The transition seen in fig. 6 is impossible (there is no “empty region”). Having an empty region would be akin to zooming into the decimals of pi and seeing no numbers for a specific array of decimals: 3.14159ÄÄÄÄ265359... The Ä´s can´t be there: it´s a continuous sequence of decimal numbers. There is no break/”empty region” in the continuous decimals of pi just as there is no region of the size-range that can be empty of energymass.
In this chapter I´ve written something akin to “
first
there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification unless you consider that the size-axis of the size-time-diagram is infinite),
then
there was E=mc
2
,
then
there was energymass summoned into the smallest spaces available (available = considered to be within an event horizon and empty)”. This harkens back to previous lectures´ talk about “alien logic” (how exoplanets think). To have it make sense to our brains we use the time-distinctions “first, then and then” but the real distinction is not in time but in steps in a sequence of logic. In other words all the mentioned steps happened simultaneously to start the Big Bang: E=mc
2
was true as soon as there was spacetime, and as soon as there was that, energymass appeared as not to make the universe absurd (by it talking gibberish or it having an empty region like in fig. 6).
The end of the Big Bang
Telescopes observe that “space is being born” i.e. that the distances between clumps of energymass (galaxies) are getting larger, and at an accelerating pace too. Not only does the Hubble law state that an object a
million light
-
years
away would be receding from us at 21 km/sec and at double the distance twice the speed, but the law states that that speed (for example 21 km/sec a million light years away) is increasing. This is called accelerating cosmic expansion. It means that from our galaxy, when/if we look into the sky trillions of years in the future, we´d see no trace of any other galaxy let alone the cosmic microwave background (because their speeds have passed the speed of light and thus went beyond the event horizon). Once that object a million light years away from us which today is racing away at 21 km/sec reaches 299792 km/sec (the speed of light), it will pass from being within our event horizon to being outside our sphere of events.
This empties our universe or as Hitchens put it: “nothingness is coming”. Once that nothingness comes we have our starting point where we run through the logic of E=mc
2
–> “if it is mentioned it must exist/be summoned” (in order for the universe not to talk gibberish or the infinite size-range not to have a break in it) –> energymass begins as dense (because of relativity and because E=mc
2
is true everywhere simultaneously/equally).
We observe that nothingness (within event horizons) is coming, and beginning from nothingness there is unintuitive logic that has a predictive quality to it: the Big Bang should start dense. This theory works well with lecture 2´s proofs for that “there is more to Reality than can be represented” (the size-time-diagram is infinite) because size is essentially space, and space and time are
intertwined into a single spacetime – hence: if size/space is infinite then time must be infinite too. In other words we have reoccurring Big Bangs interspersed along the time-axis of our size-time-diagram. As soon as a region bound by an event horizon becomes empty we have the universe´s no-nonsense-laws kicking in and E=mc
2
summons energymass (in the smallest sizes that are empty equally/simultaneously).
The sequence of consecutive Big Bangs´ beginnings (emptiness leading to energymass being summoned) and ends (accelerating cosmic expansion speeding things past a point´s event horizon and emptiness being summoned) are as infinite as the time-axis proved to be based on lecture 2´s proofs. Proving (in lecture 2) that spacetime is infinite fits perfectly with the reoccurring Big Bangs (when somethingness becomes emptiness and then emptiness summons somethingness).
There will in other words, between the beginning of a Big Bang and the end of that same Big Bang, be life within the conscious/human size-range (the different locations of that size already being infinitely many, see fig. 4).
Each size along the size-axis is defined as “3-dimensional infinite space” meaning there is infinitely much life with access to universal science (i.e. some version of this lecture-series), and within our region (bound by an event horizon) there is life between the beginning and end of Big Bangs. In addition I have hard to believe that a reproducing shape (and thus evolution) only occurs in only
one
size-range (the, for humans, knowable size-range) in an infinite size-range: there ought to be many sub-size-ranges as part of the infinite size-range where evolution occurs and can reach scientific knowledge. All life mentioned above, if they reach scientific understanding, would concur on the existential theory presented in these lectures (especially lecture 3 – the three pillars/foundations/ideas which together become a minimalist theory for why there is the infinite size-range of energymasspacetime in the first place).
This is not only exoplanet science – it is science between Big Bangs and it is science in regions of the size-axis far away (in size) from our knowable size-range. See fig. 7.
Author
yonis
Posted on
11/11/2016
11/11/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on 18 page summary
Lecture 4
lecture-4
Author
yonis
Posted on
10/11/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Lecture 4
Posts navigation
Page
1
Page
2
Next page
Search for:
Search
Recent Posts
Women
Latest version of my book
latest (v2)
latest v (2)
Latest version (1)
Recent Comments
Archives
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
Categories
Dagbok
The book + diagrams
Trashcan
Trey
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.org
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Proudly powered by WordPress

Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen – A world-unifying world-view
Skip to content
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
A world-unifying world-view
From Certain Truth to Dinosaurs (with Maan and Marwan)
Author
yonis
Posted on
05/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on From Certain Truth to Dinosaurs (with Maan and Marwan)
War and Boredom
War-and-Boredom
26
War and Boredom (did you get bored of this book and thus let the world-view-differences-based wars continue?)
War and Boredom
The title of this book refers to that it is hard to get through this book. The reason why this new science (that I present in this book) hasn’t been discovered until I did is because part 1 of this book gives a sense of meaninglessness toward the Universe and part 2 deals with evolution in a depressing way because the main trend is “power”.
Writing it gave me anxiety and reading it gives many people anxiety.
But the question is: does everyone agree on it? If they do, that changes the Israel-Palestine-conflict where the parties of God are vetoing
regarding the borders of
the
“holy land”; it changes religious extremism and the wars fought over it. Religion is the biggest cause for hatred
in the world, as Hitchens said. My book
is
a minimalist theory
that
encompasses all one needs to understand
Everything: existence (why there is size itself) and
evolution – even thoughts about the future of humanity/evolution.
Even though there comes a sense of meaninglessness from knowing the existential theory and a sense of depression from knowing evolution, there is
a sense of
honor in having the right world-view.
Most importantly, the religious wars - ISIS/Israel/etc. - can be demolished by a world-view which everyone agrees on. War only continues because it is boring to learn and teach the course I present in this book. Hence the book´s name: War and Boredom, or: how boredom (toward science) keeps the wars continuing.
Not only can this book end wars, but it can unify people so that they feel more friendliness toward each other – science is a language and speaking the same language makes it easier to make friends. Having the same associations between concepts (a scientific world-view) gives people a lot to agree on, they´ll “speak the same language”.
If anyhow you get too bored to study further, there are three parts to this book (1: the existential theory, 2: evolution, 3: the dawn of religion), and they’re written with different styles. You may jump to either part directly.
Lecture 1
Descartes
One of the aims of this course is to get EVERYONE to agree so that they have the same associations between scientific concepts.
There is no other proper way to accomplish this goal than by starting with certain truth, which was found by Descartes in the 1600s. He lived in a time where they believed in demons, Gods etc. so he postulated a thought experiment where he assumed an almighty demon was fooling him in everything he could be fooled in: what would remain as certain truth – what could he not be fooled in?
If he was being fooled, where would still be a “he” (or self) there to be fooled, meaning that the self certainly exists. A self is necessary for a self to be fooled.
Descartes had thus concluded his own existence.
Being fooled is thinking – thus thought exists. “There is thought” Descartes concluded as certain truth. The word “fooling” represents a thought-process.
Descartes found the starting-position for any inquiry about truth: we can know certainly that thinker and thought exists.
Distinction exists (a logical conclusion from the above)
Looking at what we´ve found as certain truth so far “from above” (meta), we can take the next logical step – adding a third factoid to our 2-statement (A and B above) starting position: that there is distinction (
between
thinker and thought). The fact that thinker and thought are two separate entities concluded to be certain truth
s
through two
different
logical pathway
s
lets us conclude that “distinction exists”
. There are what Chinese philosophy calls “the ten thousand things” (referring to the world) – there are at least two (three if we include “distinction” as th
e third thing) certain entities, and empirically we know there are “ten thousand things” (not taking the number 10 000 literally but just referring to multiplicity).
First universal diagram
We can draw the thinker and thought and distinction between them as two dots with a line between them on a piece of paper (fig. 1).
Now we have something all religions agree on
– we´ve drawn up ideas and associations between them. Everyone ought to have the same associations (explanatory thoughts) between the concepts we´ve looked at so far.
We have, if you will – in figure 1 – a universal diagram.
Reality
We have the capability to conglomerate many separate entities under the rubric of a single category. If we use this capability to collect the “ten thousand things” (distinct entities) we´ve found so far into a single thing, we ought to give that thing a word/name. Its definition can be “that of which all is
part” and “the opposite of separation/distinction”. I will use the word Reality to refer to this all-encompassing thing.
In lecture 2 I will present three proofs for that “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, but for now we can draw (adding to figure 1) a dot with a cross over it – the cross to symbolize that the dot itself is a false representation of Reality because we (the observer/self/thinker) should be part of that dot. See fig 2.
Thinking about what we´ve got so far
Thinking about what we´ve got so far (fig. 2) it’s a bundle of associations which make universal inter-religious (all religions agree on it) knowledge with both words and pictures.
In the next lecture I present why the line in fig 2 (see fig 3) represents the opposition/antagonism/disagreement/contraposition/divergence/variance between the two sides of the paper; between “thinker and thought” on one side of the paper and “Reality (that of which all is part; the opposite of separation)” on the other side of the paper.
Worth noting now is that the left side of the paper represents separation/distinction whilst the right side of the paper represents the opposite of separation/distinction – both are legitimate ideas: thinker and thought – and distinction – is certain truth based on Descartes and we all know which idea we refer to when talking about the all-encompassing [that of which all is part] Reality.
In the next lecture we will talk about why the line in fig. 3 makes it so that we can´t see Reality – I will present three proofs like in a crime case, and we will talk about what we can see if we can´t see Reality.
Making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far
1
See fig. 1 again: it´s our starting-point and the thinking that occurs in it happens in Descartes “realm of mind”; it is the mind´s realm (the left side of the paper) in which the thinking happens, and one thing we talk about is Reality on the right side of the paper in fig 3. Since the line in fig. 3 represents both the legitimacy of the ideas on both sides of the paper, and simultaneously the opposition between separation/distinction (on the left side of the paper) and [the opposite of separation/distinction] on the right side of the paper. That opposition is important and I will show its significance in lecture 2.
2
Starting from Descartes realm (of if you will: assuming that all we know is what we know for certain), we have the capability to state that there is a single Reality of which all is part – so even though we see separation we must grant that that separation (all entities) fits into a category we call Reality. There is a unifying whole even though the human mind (Descartes realm) is limited in its ways when it tries to contemplate Reality.
Not only is there the map-territory distinction (which will be presented as one out of three proofs in lecture 2), but there is also a more fundamental opposition between distinction and its opposite (there is a more fundamental opposition between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3). Not only are we stuck in the map-territory-distinction-realm but we also can conclude that no representation (regardless of the mind) is equal to Reality (on a more fundamental level than the map-territory-problem).
Representation is done in the brain using neurons and in a computer using electrons, but there is no reason why the most distant atom or quark couldn´t be proposed to be a symbol for [that of which all is part] – and even in that brainless scenario we will see in lecture 2 that “that of which all is part cannot be represented”. The map-territory-distinction is just proof/evidence number two in lecture 2 (for that we cannot see Reality and thus, since we do see/represent something, there must be more to Reality than can be represented i.e. the size-time-diagram (presented in lecture
2) is infinite along both axes.
Proof 3 in lecture 2 removes the brain from the equation and still proves that there is more to Reality than can be seen/represented/symbolized (using any means/any method – even without a brain), and since some representation is obviously (since we know that there are minds) possible, there must be more than can be represented/contemplated i.e. the size-axis is infinite and the time-axis is infinite in that two-axis diagram.
3
Both sides of the paper in fig. 3 are legitimate ideas. But still they are opposites (separation on one side and the opposite of separation on the other side). How can two derived-from-logic sides of the
paper be opposites but still both be legitimate?
Usually opposition – like between Democrats and Republicans – means that one is right and the other is wrong; they can´t both simultaneously be right: you can´t meaningfully vote for both parties at the same time.
The case is different between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3: both sides are right and they are opposites.
There is a single Reality and there is multiplicity in distinction.
What does this mean? That there is more to the size-time-diagram than anything could represent – any representation fails (you can think of some examples/suggestions for how to represent [that of which all is part]/[the opposite of separation]) – and thus the axes on the size-time-diagram are infinite. This is a hither to unpresented fact in science – it is new science: some of the best scientists ignorantly believe that the size-range is limited/finite.
4
We have quite a few associations and symbols in fig. 3 which must be agreed upon, and here I´m using the word “must” in the sense that “by the rules of logic X must be true”. Other civilizations throughout the infinitely many galaxies there are use the exact same ideas (but in a different language) and have the same associations between them (that there are infinitely many galaxies is derived from that the size-axis in the size-time-diagram is infinite). There is distinction as the third truth to be added to Descartes two fundamental truths (thinker and thought exist), and all that is opposed to (on the other side of the paper in fig. 3) to the all-encompassing Reality which is defined using at least two definitions: that of which all is part and the opposite of separation.
I´m tri-lingual but I write the same ideas and associate them in the same ways no matter which language I write in – its universal science beginning from certain truth. On other planets that have civilizations my writings in this book ought to match up quite near to the writings creating the same lecture series based on universal science that I´m creating
– “alien”/exo-planet
lecture series proceed, beginning from certain fact, through logical steps as I do.
5
[Thinker and thought] (certain truth) and thus distinction/separation are associated through negation/opposition to the right side of the paper in figure 3: Reality. The left side is not the right side just like separation is not its opposites. Both being legitimate ideas, though, connects them in the way that thinker and thought (and all other distinct entities) are in the category Reality.
Even though Reality and distinction are opposites, distinction dwells in (as a sub-entity within the category) Reality.
The associations between the left and right sides of the paper in figure 3 are both united through the notion “opposition” and through the notion that distinction is inherent in Reality (Reality being the opposite of distinction
because we have all-encompassing and its opposite: composite parts).
6
It is certainly true that all is part of a single Reality; but it is equally true that in every observation there is an observer and hence distinction (between thinker and thought). We see separate entities is as true as that the self that we are is not in front of us – but everything we see (thought/object) is in front of us.
That is evidence 1 in lecture 2 (not a proof, but a mere suggestion/evidence that [that of which all is part cannot be observed] and thus there is more to Reality than our concept of [infinitely
much].
All we know about Reality has two properties: a size and a time. Size and time are two axes on a diagram, and thus all we know fits into the size-time-diagram (every object or location in space has a size and time).
There is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram because all suggested representors for Reality fail
(for three reasons taken up in lecture 2).
7
All
bundles of associations in this chapter “making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far”
are written in order to create some universal brain structures (universal because science is the same everywhere (on all exo-planets), and their brains make the same associations too eventually). It´s not some random bundle of associations nor did I randomly present random ideas.
I assume the brain structure created by understanding this book is a replica of something derived from science; a replica of brain structures on the infinitely many other civilization-bearing planets. It´s a universal “ideology”, if you will.
Everyone has a possibility of sharing it in agreement – and future lectures will add a whole lot of complexity to it; agreement tends to build friendship so study is a way of bringing more peace to the world.
Once the full world-view is presented throughout this book, it´s a way of pacifying the world.
8
We have two brain-halves: one linguistic and one visual. So far we´ve both drawn pictorial representations and connected words – both brain-halves have been working. The connections across corpus collosum (which sits between the brain-halves and connects them) that connect a linguistic narrative/explanation to the pictorial representations are one day found in all humans thanks to science. Our brains are becoming more as science has a propensity to make them be.
This course itself, since it begins with certain truths and builds upon it logically, is a universal course (to the best of my ability).
The brain cells that constitute the negation (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 3) or opposition are not the same kind of cells (they are inhibitory neurons) that connect thinker with though as both being certain truths (but the thinker is not the thought and thus has inhibitory cells making that brain-structure work too
(what you are is not in front of you;
what you are is not visible).
Since both Reality and [what you are]/self/observer/thinker are invisible the brain might erroneously and spontaneously try to associate them, so a brain-structure is needed to inhibit that association (and replace it with a more complex explanation). That spontaneous but erroneous association is something all thinking animals throughout the universe evolved to do, and the inhibition of it through culture/civilizing/science is universally available within complex enough civilizations throughout the universe.
As you can see the brain structures responsible for doing this thing are quite complex, but also universal and thus accessible to all humans, and predictably will someday be in all humans (fostering agreement, thus friendship, thus peace).
Lecture 2
Perceive, apprehend, notice are synonyms for our representing ability, but I will use the word “see” or “observe” to refer to all of these. The goal of this lecture is to prove the statement “that of which
all is part cannot be observed”, Reality being defined as “that of which all is part”. In other words: we cannot see Reality, and thus there is more to Reality than even can be contemplated (i.e. infinitely much).
I will build this lecture like a criminal court case: I will present three proofs for that we cannot see Reality i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated i.e. (since we can contemplate anything (right or wrong)) Reality is infinite.
Since anything/everything we know about Reality has some size and time, it fits into a size-time-diagram. See fig. 4.
In fig. 4 size is represented along the vertical axis and time along the horizontal axis. The objects humans see in everyday life (from the horizon to a single cell as one “pixel” in our visual field) are marked in “the human range”.
See fig 5.
In fig. 5 I´ve drawn the same diagram as in fig. 4 but this time with infinity-symbols in each corner of the squareical size-time-diagram. Two infinite axes become a square.
Proof number 3 in our “court case” for proving that the size-time-diagram (Reality) is infinite has us imagine the unobservable separatenessless Reality and ask whether there is a maximum or minimum size to/in it (a maximum/minimum being separateness while we are talking about the opposite of separation). This is again to confirm that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes.
The line we drew in fig. 4 was for separating the two sides of the paper; opposing “thinker and thought” (distinction) with its opposite: one all-encompassing non-distinction Reality. That opposition-line is what this lecture is about since it proves that the two sides of the paper are separate/opposing realms and we are stuck in one realm as long as we are observers (because observation is separation/distinction (thinker and thought)).
Proving that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes is new science because it poses the question: what happened before the Big Bang (14 billion years ago), and it presents one pillar of our existential theory: that each size is the reason for each next and previous size, and the size axis is infinite, meaning the “beginning” of the relationship between sizes keeps retreating into infinity the more we contemplate the range of the size axis.
When I presented fig. 4 for the first time I drew a cross over the dot symbolizing Reality for the plain reason that we (as observers) should be part of that dot, and by the very nature of us being separate (and the dot representing the opposite of separation) we should draw a cross over it symbolizing that we cannot see it.
The main proof though is that even if all observers were dead there´d still be, inherent and fundamental in nature, the opposition between distinction and distinction´s opposite (the two sides of the paper in fig. 4). The line is an opposition-line and it is more fundamental than being dependent on humans/observers – it refers to all representation whether it’s using/including humans or not. I am, in other words, not talking about the map-territory distinction (which symbolizes that humans have mental maps and not the real world per se; like Kant said: we have “the thing” and not “the thing itself”). Proof 2 – the opposition-line between the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 – is not subjective: it is true that we live with the map-territory-distinction but even if I died there´d still be separate things (chairs separate from cups), that kind of separation is not dependent on me/observers. Simultaneously the flipside of the coin (the other side of the paper in fig. 4) is true too: all is one single Reality (the opposite of separation). Proof 2, in other words, should not be interpreted as signifying the map-territory distinction (human subjectivity) but instead a fundamental opposition in the universe.
If we do not see Reality, then what do we see? Everything we see fits into the size-time-diagram, and since the opposition-line in fig. 4 shows that there is a fundamental rule that states, in 3 different proofs, that Reality is infinite / there is more than can even be contemplated / there is more than even non-subjective representation can represent.
Proof number 1 is really weaker than a “proof” – it´s more like evidence. It wouldn´t hold up in a court but it is a way of stating what the other proofs too point towards. Proof 1 is what we saw when presenting figure 4: any dot representing Reality is an incorrect representation because the observer should be part of the object – the thinker should be part of the thought. It denies Cartesian
separation and thus is untrue, meaning that anything we draw on the right side of the paper in fig. 4 is incorrect.
We can contemplate anything: we can speculate about what´s smaller than quantum physics, or even what´s smaller than that, etc. into infinity. We are probably wrong, but any contemplation/representation counts as a contemplation – and since we know that, whether right or wrong as our contemplations may be, there is more to Reality than can be contemplated, it follows that there must be infinitely much to Reality. Since all we know about Reality fits into a size-time-diagram, the minimalist approach is to state that it´s the size-time-diagram that is infinite.
This warrants two new words: the knowable/known size-range and the infinite size-range. The knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range. Since Einstein unified space (size) and time, one cannot be infinite without the other one being the same. Science today doesn´t know whether there was a “before” to the Big Bang or not (whether time was created at the Big Bang), but now we know that the Big Bang is just an event on an infinite time axis. In a future lecture we will talk about how/why the Big Bang recreates (happens over and over).
We talked about universal diagrams (and universal brain-structures) in lecture 1. The size-time-diagram is one major universal diagram. A lot of detail can be added to it because all fields of science fit into it. The infinity-symbols on each axis of the squareical diagram are drawn, based on science, on exo-planets with advanced enough civilizations.
This lecture is about proving that [that of which all is part] (the opposite of separation) i.e. Reality cannot be observed/represented, and that this fact is true irrespective of whether we are observers or dead, and applying this to the size-time-diagram (which gets its infinity-symbols into the squareical diagram).
Proof number 2 (the main proof) is the oppositional approach between Reality and distinction, and it is not subjective because Reality and Reality´s opposite exist even if we were dead. Proof number 3 is about imagining (even though no imagination is it) Reality as a big gray (because energymass is white and spacetime is black) solid, in which we know no observer should be (because observation is separation) – does it have separation i.e. a biggest and a smallest size? No, because such distinctions are not in the opposite of distinction (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 4).
I´ve mentioned universal associations in the brain / exo-planet science, so talking about the size-time-diagram we can add more universal notions to it: why did I draw upwards on the size axis as larger and downward as smaller? Why is the time-axis horizontally drawn instead of vertically? The diagram works even if we would define the vertical axis as time and the horizontal axis as size – so why do we draw size vertically and time horizontally? Is it universal i.e. on other planets or just a human convention like writing from left to right in English-speaking countries and right to left in Arabic-speaking countries?
Evolution has it so that during the history of science telescopes look upward and microscopes look downward. This would be the case on other planets too: they turn their heads upward to see the large and downward (onto a table) to see the small; the opposite can´t be true on any planet. Thus
we get the size axis´ standard (of upward being larger) from evolution / the history of science. I use the word “standard” because it comes from evolution rather than being more fundamentally hard-wired into the universe such as the fact that the size-time-diagram is a square with infinity symbols. That the size-time-diagram is a square is not a standard – it is something stronger than that. The fact that we represent time on the vertical axis (and upward as larger) comes from a weaker source: tradition (even though that same tradition is true on all planets; evolution, in this regard, happens the same on all planets that end up with civilizations).
We thus have added standards or weak conventions (derived from history) in addition to having strong diagrams like the size-time-diagram being a square. The distinction between the two is made based on science and is thus made on exo-planets.
Scientists are looking for exo-planets that bear civilizations. If the size-range is infinite – as we´ve proven that it is – then each particular size (like the human range in fig. 5) is infinite too; if the largest is infinitely large then there is, considering the size of a human, an infinite distance in any direction that that human could find itself in. This makes civilizations on other planets a must, not an assumption. The known/knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range, and within the known size-range there is a range in which evolution occurs (between the smallest cells and the biggest organisms), and since we´ve proven that there are infinitely many objects within/of that size-range, then there must be infinitely many locations in which evolution occurs.
In the next lecture we will bind together the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 (distinction and distinction´s opposite; “thinker and thought” opposing Reality) with E=mc
2
(energymasspacetime) and with the infinity of the size-time axes, into a single existential theory which is a rival to “God created earth in 6 days…” The existential theory is a minimalist account for why there is a sizescale in the first place, and why there is something (energymass) rather than nothing (spacetime). It reminds me of this passage: “HITCHENS: In other words, as the great physicist Laplace said when he demonstrated his working model (his orrery, as it’s called) of the solar system to the emperor and Napoleon said, “Well I see there’s no God in this system,” and Laplace said, “Well, Your Majesty, it works without that assumption.””
In this chapter I´ve presented three proofs for that the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in it i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated; we do represent something but however we choose to represent (even representations that can be proposed as thought-experiments if we were dead) we do not represent Reality i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality. Are there any counter-arguments saying that the size-time-diagram is finite? I built this lecture like a court case and I´d like to hear the opposing side. There are no arguments that oppose what I´ve proven so far.
Lecture 3
E=mc
2
E=mc
2
as an equation is only used in relativistic scenarios such as very high speed or very high energy, but since speed is a continuum the equation is true at slower speeds. There is a difference between the equation being applicable (being needed while solving equations) and it being true; it is always true everywhere but it is not needed for equations except in special scenarios.
An example of the equation being true everywhere and always is this: nuclear power-plants turn mass (kilograms) into energy (joule), so that if you input 1 kg of uranium-mass you get out 99.9999 kg of waste products – some of the mass turned into energy which lights our light-bulbs. The atoms that lost some weight (that weight was converted into energy) are atoms just like other kinds of atoms, for example in autumn leaves. If you´d drop leaves into the core of the sun, the sun´s nuclear furnace would turn mass in the leaves into energy (light). Hence all objects are subject to the E=mc
2
-rule, which states that energy (E) equals mass (m). This warrants the word energymass because they are no longer two distinct things – they are but different manifestations of the same thing. In the brain energymass should be a single idea whilst the concepts “energy and mass” refers to two different forms of a single idea.
Verbs and adjectives tend to refer to energy (shining, running, etc.) while nouns refer to mass (body, tree, etc.) E=mc
2
states that the two (verbs/adjectives and nouns) are together in a single equation. Although only applicable in relativistic scenarios (the role of relativism becomes close to zero in everyday human events, except that our light-bulbs shine because mass turns into energy and the sun can makes leaves into light), E=mc
2
is in a “philosophical” sense true everywhere and always just like Pythagoras’s theorem about triangles remains “philosophically true” even where there are no physical triangles. You wouldn´t say 1=1 is not true in empty space just because there are no objects there to count as “1”.
In addition to energymass being a single concept (and not two distinct ones), spacetime gets added into the mix by the c
2
-part of the equation. c is the speed of light (km/h) and thus a distance (space) over time – spacetime! Energymass (E=m) and spacetime (c
2
) should in the brain be represented by a single idea which we can call energymasspacetime. This harkens back to the previous lectures about Reality, which is a synonym for energymasspacetime. Einstein invented the equation E=mc
2
and thus unified in it energymass with spacetime – and synonyms for energymass are “existence” or “1” while synonyms for spacetime are “non-existence”, “emptiness”, “nothing” and “zero”. There is no more to be considered regarding Reality than energymasspacetime; energymasspacetime involves everything (energymass) and nothing (spacetime) so there is nothing more to be considered/added to Reality – Reality is energymasspacetime; everything is included into Reality once we have defined Reality as energymasspacetime.
The Existential Theory
Each culture seems to have a creation myth (such as genesis) – the creation of the cosmos/world/Reality is something humans have invented hypotheses for during millennia. The stories answer the question “why are we here?”
The true answer is unintuitive. First of all: why is there any particular size? What justifies, say, the size of a molecule? The answer is: the smaller and the larger (the rest of the size-range). Atoms justify a molecule and a molecule exhibits a place for atoms to live in: justifies atoms. Humans need an earth to dwell on (the earth is larger) and humans are made of cells (cells are smaller). Each size bears a relationship upon each other size – the smaller justify the larger and the larger justify the smaller. Since the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all four corners of the square (because of the proof where we had two sides of a paper), the size-range is infinite i.e. the pattern of justification between/amongst sizes continues into the infinitely large and infinitely small. What the ancients called “the first cause” keeps retreating into infinity size-wise the more we contemplate it. The size-range is like a fractal: you can keep zooming in or out infinitely much, and the question “why is there this particular object that I see” has its answer in the relationship between all the sizes: justification. Infinite justification is the reason why there is a size-range at all. But there is more that is needed for a full-fledged existential theory: two more factors play their roles.
Spacetime is emptier than we can imagine/represent it. We (and all representeurs) are energymass and thus are the opposite of spacetime. We could let a piece of empty space represent spacetime, but as soon as we use energymass (such as our brains) to do so, we´ve lost the truly empty nature of spacetime: it is unimaginably empty. Any bundle of neurons, no matter how we wire it, is still the opposite of what they want to represent when they want to present us with spacetime. It is therefore useful to have two concepts for spacetime: (1) our simplest intuition of spacetime and (2) additional defining language explaining that spacetime is emptier than (1). This is how exoplanet civilizations would wire their brains regarding the concept “spacetime” too, just because it’s the most accurate science they can manage.
Just like energy and mass are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon, energymass and spacetime are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon. What does it mean for spacetime to be bundled together with (intertwined with) energymass? Everything exists as/in/because of nothing; 1 exists in 0; energymass and spacetime are together in the E=mc
2
-equation. Where could energymass/existence exist? In nothingness. Just like sizes justify one another, spacetime justifies energymass.
The last question that remains, after we have justification between sizes in an infinite size-range, and that all points in the size-time-diagram are made of energymasspacetime (and energymass is justified by it being in spacetime), is the objective fact that there both is a single Reality (the right side of the paper) and there´s its opposite: distinction (between, say, thinker and thought).
The existential theory builds on three “pillars”/fundamental ideas:
An infinite sizescale,
Energymasspacetime as in the equation E=mc
2
Distinction between distinction itself and distinction´s opposite (see fig. 1, 2, 3):
Between distinction (the left side of the paper, our 2 certain truths: I exist and there is thought) and Reality (the opposite of distinction; one Reality (not plural)) there is a line that demarcates distinction/opposition.
Putting it all into one phrase we might say: “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime with opposition between distinction and Oneness”. At its core it´s three ideas (infinite size-time-diagram, energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
), separation and intertwinedness (the two sides of the paper)). On exoplanets they would state their reason for their own existence using these three ideas too, because taken together they explain all that needs to be explained: first thing that comes to mind is that in the stated existential theory there must be a reproducing shape (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape; a DNA-strand) somewhere. If the size-time-diagram has
infinity symbols in all three corners, then evolution ought to occur somewhere (and be made of energymass in spacetime, while being separate/distinct in a single intertwined Reality).
Most creation-myths have a quite simple (one-pillared) and mundane story: for example genesis just states that God created Reality (that of which all is part) in 6 days and rested on the 7
th
. The scientific rival to all such creation stories is a three-pillared theory – we can´t make it any simpler (we can´t make it one-pillared) and the same would be the case on exoplanets: they too can only break it down to three interconnected ideas/pillars/fundaments, so in thinking this way we share a common intellectual history with exoplanet civilizations advanced enough to figure out this existential theory.
On a test on this subject a question might be: “what are the three pillars of the existential theory?” – the question can´t be “what is the most important pillar in the existential theory?” All pillars are equally important but constitute as distinct ideas as E=mc
2
is from infinite size, or the separation-intertwinedness-opposition (fig. 3).
This three-pillared creation story – the sum of these three chapters – is built upon logic: it includes certain truths like “I think and I exist” (distinction/separation), its opposite (Reality for which we have three proofs for that it can´t be observed/seen/contemplated i.e. the size-time-diagram is infinite), E=mc
2
which unifies nothing/spacetime with existence/energymass, and the relationship between any two sizes (justification along the infinite size-range). Every one of these ideas relates very closely to Descartes´ certain truth, meaning we can be sure of the ideas themselves – and they together build up a minimalist existential theory which needs no further logic to explain everything there is.
Having an infinite size-range has a predictive quality to it too – it makes a prediction: there ought to be evolution (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar mass) somewhere in the diversity we see throughout even the known size-range.
Though as non-intuitive as the 3-pillar existential theory may be to our evolved brains who want a single conclusion, exoplanet civilizations have the same limits and biases as us: they too are stuck with three pillars in a single theory to make the theory explainable. Science is creating universal (exoplanet) neural pathways in our brains. We should embrace the fact that by being non-intuitive but true, this science wires our brain based on science and thus universally. It is the way (the wiring) that all planets are headed to if they´re into science. It´s a universal world-view. We´re thinking like aliens.
In current scientific debates the religious will argue that faith (in a dogma) is needed to (what they call) “understand” the existence of the universe. If confronted with my theory (these lectures) they´d have to agree that logic makes their God unnecessary as a pillar of creation. In the best case scenario God is simply a synonym for Reality (because Reality is “that of which all is part” and thus God ought to be part of it too, and all we know about Reality is that it is energymass in spacetime and separation in intertwinedness).
Having an explanation – the negative side of it is it being three-pillared and unintuitive, the positive side of it being that it accounts for all of Reality and predicts evolution – further justifies the saying “a God of the gaps” (meaning the more we understand the less we need God). Now all that remains to be understood – again in an unintuitive but identical to exoplanets -way – is how, on an infinite time-
line, the Big Bang (denseness) recreates and fades away into sparseness (black holes removing energymass and dark energy creating more space until no galaxies are anymore visible).
Lecture 4
The beginning of the Big Bang
I have a hard time imagining how the universe can reach complete emptiness, but it wouldn´t be the first time the universe´s nature surpasses human intuition. In the history of science stars were observed to not move relative to one another on the night sky, and this was argued to prove that the size of the universe was much smaller than the now known size – it was argued that the universe would be “unreasonably big” if the stars didn´t seem to move relative to one another as the earth moved because they were so far away.
If only enough time is needed for the universe to become empty, then we get the starting scenario which is most reasonable: we start with emptiness (spacetime). Again, spacetime is emptier than our concept for it because we (and our concepts) are made of energymass.
If you move your hand one meter (from position 1 to position 2), the laws of nature that make your hand make sense were already in place in the space of position 2 before you moved your hand there. It´s not like the universe/spacetime was absurd in location 2 and only started to make sense regarding hands when you moved your hand there. We do not impact the laws of nature in such ways; instead the laws of nature are simultaneously and equally true at all locations and all times. In other words: Pythagoras’s theorem is true even in locations where there are no objects whatsoever, but the theorem is only applicable (to be applied) to triangles. In empty space there are no objects and thus no triangles, but Pythagoras´s theorem is true there anyhow – it does not suddenly become true (switch from being untrue to true) when a triangle is imagined or physically moved there. This applies to E=mc
2
too, which is just as much of a law of nature as Pythagoras´s theorem. E=mc
2
is true everywhere and always, though humans only apply (use) the equation in certain scenarios. Where triangles can be (in spacetime) there is also E=mc
2
. Laws of nature are fundamental and inherent in spacetime and do not come about depending on events (though our application/use of any particular equation is dependent on which event we´re analyzing).
There is distinction between the practical use of equations (to solve problems or understand a phenomenon) and the core nature of spacetime having laws of nature in it. Spacetime is a no-nonsense spacetime – we live in a rational (laws of nature-abiding) universe.
One law being E=mc
2
and another one being “if it is said it must exist” (meaning energymass can´t be mentioned in the laws of nature of spacetime without energymass existing), we get spacetime to summon energymass if the starting-point was complete emptiness. “If energymass is mentioned it must be summoned” (it is mentioned in E=mc
2
) is true because it would be a nonsense universe if it “talks” about energymass without there being any – just infinite space for eternity with laws of nature regarding energymass, but never any energymass appearing/being present. It would be a
nonsense universe if energymass it mentioned but never exists. It would be akin to the universe telling lies (having all these rules like E=mc
2
but never applying them to anything), or the universe babbling gibberish (having inapplicable laws of nature).
Thus, E=mc
2
being a core property of spacetime itself and the “no gibberish”-rule applying, energymass must logically be summoned – but how and where? Extremely dense i.e. everywhere, in the smallest spaces, simultaneously. Why? Our starting-point is spacetime, which needs no prior justification because it is the opposite of existence: it doesn´t exist – it is emptier than our neurons make it out to be. In it Einstein´s theory of relativity is true, meaning that there is no center point (or in other words: all points are the center) so there is no center to the Big Bang. Another way of seeing it is that as soon as there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification), E=mc
2
became true in all locations (in the smallest spaces) simultaneously – no point in space was before another in having E=mc
2
be true in it. Spacetime having E=mc
2
as a core property has E=mc
2
be true everywhere simultaneously; once we have the launching-condition of empty spacetime, through E=mc
2
, energymass is summoned everywhere simultaneously.
This “everywhere” is all things within an event horizon, meaning that things moving away faster than the speed of light (due to dark energy/accelerating cosmic expansion) are not within our event horizon: they are not part of what can be reasonably called “our 3-dimensional space” (from our location). Things are not part of our universe once their speed hits faster than the speed of light – and many locations, within the boundaries of their respective event horizons, will one day have all energymass moving away from them at speeds faster than the speed of light (this is just the observed fact of accelerating cosmic expansion). Such a finite space with no energymass within its event horizon (all energymass moving away faster than the speed of light) would constitute “completely empty space” i.e. our starting-point for the Big Bang (energymass being summoned due to E=mc
2
).
Consider an infinite size-range - it is made of energymasspacetime: if we draw it as the Y-axis on a diagram, there can´t be a region/length in it (such as the knowable size-range) which is completely empty forever. See fig. 6.
Because of the rules E=mc
2
and “if it is mentioned it must be summoned”/”no-nonsense universe” are true throughout the infinite size-range, there can´t be a region with just spacetime (with its laws of nature) because the laws of spacetime mention energymass; spacetime is inherently tied to and intertwined with energymass – existence and non-existence go together (at all sizes). There would be no logical breaking-point (a particular size) where energymasspacetime transitions into being just spacetime for a range of sizes and then transitions back into energymasspacetime; there is no logical breaking-point where the implications of E=mc
2
(the implication being: energymass and spacetime are in the same equation) stop to be true. The transition seen in fig. 6 is impossible (there is no “empty region”). Having an empty region would be akin to zooming into the decimals of pi and seeing no numbers for a specific array of decimals: 3.14159ÄÄÄÄ265359... The Ä´s can´t be there: it´s a continuous sequence of decimal numbers. There is no break/”empty region” in the continuous decimals of pi just as there is no region of the size-range that can be empty of energymass.
In this chapter I´ve written something akin to “
first
there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification unless you consider that the size-axis of the size-time-diagram is infinite),
then
there was E=mc
2
,
then
there was energymass summoned into the smallest spaces available (available = considered to be within an event horizon and empty)”. This harkens back to previous lectures´ talk about “alien logic” (how exoplanets think). To have it make sense to our brains we use the time-distinctions “first, then and then” but the real distinction is not in time but in steps in a sequence of logic. In other words all the mentioned steps happened simultaneously to start the Big Bang: E=mc
2
was true as soon as there was spacetime, and as soon as there was that, energymass appeared as not to make the universe absurd (by it talking gibberish or it having an empty region like in fig. 6).
The end of the Big Bang
Telescopes observe that “space is being born” i.e. that the distances between clumps of energymass (galaxies) are getting larger, and at an accelerating pace too. Not only does the Hubble law state that an object a
million light
-
years
away would be receding from us at 21 km/sec and at double the distance twice the speed, but the law states that that speed (for example 21 km/sec a million light years away) is increasing. This is called accelerating cosmic expansion. It means that from our galaxy, when/if we look into the sky trillions of years in the future, we´d see no trace of any other galaxy let alone the cosmic microwave background (because their speeds have passed the speed of light and thus went beyond the event horizon). Once that object a million light years away from us which today is racing away at 21 km/sec reaches 299792 km/sec (the speed of light), it will pass from being within our event horizon to being outside our sphere of events.
This empties our universe or as Hitchens put it: “nothingness is coming”. Once that nothingness comes we have our starting point where we run through the logic of E=mc
2
–> “if it is mentioned it must exist/be summoned” (in order for the universe not to talk gibberish or the infinite size-range not to have a break in it) –> energymass begins as dense (because of relativity and because E=mc
2
is true everywhere simultaneously/equally).
We observe that nothingness (within event horizons) is coming, and beginning from nothingness there is unintuitive logic that has a predictive quality to it: the Big Bang should start dense. This theory works well with lecture 2´s proofs for that “there is more to Reality than can be represented”
(the size-time-diagram is infinite) because size is essentially space, and space and time are intertwined into a single spacetime – hence: if size/space is infinite then time must be infinite too. In other words we have reoccurring Big Bangs interspersed along the time-axis of our size-time-diagram. As soon as a region bound by an event horizon becomes empty we have the universe´s no-nonsense-laws kicking in and E=mc
2
summons energymass (in the smallest sizes that are empty equally/simultaneously).
The sequence of consecutive Big Bangs´ beginnings (emptiness leading to energymass being summoned) and ends (accelerating cosmic expansion speeding things past a point´s event horizon and emptiness being summoned) are as infinite as the time-axis proved to be based on lecture 2´s proofs. Proving (in lecture 2) that spacetime is infinite fits perfectly with the reoccurring Big Bangs (when somethingness becomes emptiness and then emptiness summons somethingness).
There will in other words, between the beginning of a Big Bang and the end of that same Big Bang, be life within the conscious/human size-range (the different locations of that size already being infinitely many, see fig. 4).
Each size along the size-axis is defined as “3-dimensional infinite space” meaning there is infinitely much life with access to universal science (i.e. some version of this lecture-series), and within our region (bound by an event horizon) there is life between the beginning and end of Big Bangs. In addition I have hard to believe that a reproducing shape (and thus evolution) only occurs in only
one
size-range (the, for humans, knowable size-range) in an infinite size-range: there ought to be many sub-size-ranges as part of the infinite size-range where evolution occurs and can reach scientific knowledge. All life mentioned above, if they reach scientific understanding, would concur on the existential theory presented in these lectures (especially lecture 3 – the three pillars/foundations/ideas which together become a minimalist theory for why there is the infinite size-range of energymasspacetime in the first place).
This is not only exoplanet science – it is science between Big Bangs and it is science in regions of the size-axis far away (in size) from our knowable size-range. See fig. 7.
Summary
First we looked at Descartes’ ”thought exists” and ”the self exists”, claimed that it was two valid statements and pointed out the distinction between them. On the other side of the paper we wanted to represent anti-distinction (the opposite of distinction) defined as “that of which all is part” (Reality), and realized that since thinker/thought is stuck on the left side of the paper we can’t represent Reality. This is not only Kant’s “the thing is not the thing itself (the mental map is not the real territory)” but more importantly whatever cannot be taken to represent “that of which all is part” i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality.
All we know about Reality (atoms, humans, galaxies) fit into a size-time-diagram (every object has a size and a time), so the minimalist approach combining the above paragraph with this one is to use the first paragraph to prove that the size-time diagram has infinite
axes. This in turn leads to an existential theory which can be summed up as “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime” – and it has a predictive quality to it: somewhere in such an existence there would be a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape and thus we get reproduction/evolution.
So far we’ve looked at the theory of why size itself exists, why there is something rather than nothing – an existential theory beginning from certain truth and logically building its way up all the way to predicting evolution.
Part 2: Evolution
My explanation of evolution focuses on how important disease and bullying (power) was for evolution.
Power
means that
fish
were
fighting fish breeding more agressive fish = dinosaurs, then wolfpacks with an alpha male.
But even before and after those eras in evolution the rule of power was in play.
In part one we had an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime (including the intertwinedness-separation-opposition and the time-axis with repeating Big Bangs perpendicular to the size-axis) that predicts a reproducing shape i.e. a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape: reproduction in an infinite size-range.
This infinite size-range predicts reproduction.
Part one was about why there is a sizescale of energymasspacetime: the answers are that the sizescale is infinite and that energymass is in spacetime. It predicts that there should be a reproducing shape: say that it is a triangle which gathers surrounding lines into a similar triangle – then it has reproduced itself. The products of this reproduction obey three rules: directly when there was reproduction three rules came into play, I´ve listed them below as 1, 2, 3 but they are not in order (they came simultaneously):
1:
There is life and death: those who survive survive and those who die are not in the game anymore. “The surviving survive”. It´s so simple – we see it in everyday life today. But everything in evolution will come back to these three rules so we might as well do the banal and bring them up.
So directly when there was a reproducing shape - so in our part of the size-range a DNA-strand which split in the middle and became two DNA-strands – the copy either survived or died.
2: The second rule is that the number of offspring has significance. That is to say: if you get one child or five children or ten children, there is a difference between those numbers – and in evolution it´s a benefit to have more children. One can also have zero children, and that is approximately like being dead.
Some would say that evolution´s meaning (the main task of life) is to make more offspring – that it´s the scientific meaning of life – Nature´s meaning: to reproduce. But I would answer that evolution makes more offspring (that´s reproduction) and making more offspring gives evolutionary benefits, but Nature itself does not care – it does not care about whether we nuke ourselves or not. There is no God that looks upon us and cares. Even reproduction becomes meaningless in the larger perspective. But in evolution it has significance whether one has zero offspring or ten offspring.
Rule number two (number of offspring matters) just as simple as rule number 1 (that there is life and death; that some live and some die).
The third rule that appered... – well all three rules appeared simultaneously directly when there was reproduction in this sizerange. The third rule is that:
3: There is mutation in every generation-shift. Things change. It doesn’t make perfect copies. Your child (if you have one) is not an exact copy of yourself or your wife – it’s a mutation; a change.
These three rules – 1: that there is life and death, the surviving survive. 2: That there are different nuances in the number of offspring. 3: That there is mutation in every generation-shift – these three rules came into play directly when the first reproduction occurred. We will return to these three rules over and over again; they are like laws of nature that like God says shall work on life directly
when the first life reproduces itself. These laws of nature didn’t exist before the first life reproduced itself – they were not active then. They became active directly when there was reproduction.
These are abstract laws that we will manufacture, then we have the physical reality of that in a puddle of water a strand of DNA – a cell – made copies/offspring. Then viruses came into the game and injected its own DNA into the ordinary cells, that is to say: hijacked their reproductive system to create virus-offspring. If this would´ve continued the ocean would´ve been filled with only viruses, so there has to be some next step which made it so that our type of life survived. But the viruses added a 4
th
law (one of these abstract laws)
and that is: if you can hijack someone else’s reproductive system to create your own offspring; if you can inject your DNA into somebody else´s cell so that it creates viruses – I call this “power”. We will return to this word when we for example look at dinosaurs (they became bigger because the men killed each other to get the women whom make offspring). This power-principle was one that came after the three first ones.
The first cells reproduced and we had these three rules, then viruses came and injected their DNA and used “power” to produce more viruses. Then we get an immune-system which kills viruses i.e. protects the original organism´s reproductive system from being hijacked by viruses. So the immune-system evolved to take back the reproductive principle (2: the number of offspring matters); for the fact that one should retain the reproductive capability for oneself – so that no virus can take it over. So power has a lot to do with the number of offspring – principle 4 has a lot to do with principle 2.
We have multicellular organisms with immune-systems, we have viruses around them – and it´s an arms-race between that the viruses mutate to overcome the immune-system and the immune-system mutates to overcome the virus. Thus we have an evolutionary pressure on mutating the immune-system as much as possible as fast as possible (because the viruses mutate very quickly), and the best way to do that is to combine genes from two different organisms: a man and a woman. So sex has its beginning in viruses.
If this doesn´t make you feel comfortable contemplate this: the truth outweighs positive-thinking. But does one want to remove whatever spreads joy among people? Those who want to defeat the religious violence in the world (I think religion is the biggest unnecessary cause of hatred in the world) – one cannot defeat that without defeating all religiousness simultaneously. To want to defeat one part of religion but not the rest of it is like voting for the Republicans and Democrats simultaneously – it´s just unreal. Sadly one must remove the good to remove the evil. Meditation still remains and one can get a kind of anxietylessness from some thoughts still but in the big picture there are no reasons that support them anymore – it´s just a brain-trick that one does.
In our evolutionary story we had an immune-system which mutates, wants more mutations – we get two genders. Then men begin to war with each other (because, metaphorically speaking, women can produce offspring once a year while men can produce it every day – we have an imbalance; asymmetry). Why is it always men that start wars? It began with the first fish – we had multicellular life in our story so far, so they became a bit bigger, could swim around – we get fish: it´s easier to find food then and easier to move around. Directly when there were two genders there was one fish which evolved to use its teeth for killing other male fish. The first aggressor of course got the most offspring because there were no other men around. That´s why men go to war: they can produce offspring with so many women while a woman has no benefit from having 1000 men.
There´s a
caveat to
this once we get to caveman tribes/wolf-packs where a woman secretly wants many men to provide resources to her child, but at least in the era between fish and dinosaurs the picture was simply based on asymmetric reproductive rates.
So then the male fish grow more aggressive, the child who is the biggest and has the sharpest teeth kills the other male fish, has the most offspring; and in the next generation, again: the child with the most aggression and biggest muscles gets the most offspring – that´s how we get to dinosaurs and T-rex. We had males competing/fighting with each other and that´s why T-rex is so large. That is, again, the power-principle: just like viruses took over the reproductive system from the first cells, T-rex takes away the reproductive system from his rivals by killing them. So this principle number 4 (power) lives on – it has caused/causes so much: it causes the first viruses, it causes T-rex, that fish become aggressive, that we get two genders (by viruses getting power – so we wanted to counter that power by immune-systems i.e. two genders).
These dinosaurs then, just like humans don´t seem to have (sarcasm), any concept of preserving natural resources – so they would´ve eaten up all their trees and not had any food left. But on our planet it seems to have been a meteor-strike which wiped them out, but on exoplanets i.e. overall in this evolutionary series of evolutionary pressures causing various principles (first the three first principles, then the 4
th
principle, immune-systems, two-genderedness, bigger
fish, fights between the fish, dinosaurs). The dinosaurs ate their natural resources and all large life dies - so only small rat-like/squirrel-like life-forms live on.
The trees grow back up – we get monkeys.
Groups tend to, in a fight – if it´s a group against an individual (one against many) – the group tends to win. So we monkeys form groups, fighting together for food against individualists. The individualists lost.
So we got this - or had it from the get-go (just like with the first aggressors) – instinct that makes us want to be highest in the hierarchy and thereby get all the women. Power again. But this time it´s a kind of human power – we saw power when viruses took over the reproductive systems, we saw power when dinosaurs outcompeted their rivals (the men), we see power when a bully goes to the top of the hierarchy, pushes down the other men – and the women want the bully´s resources (he has the most stuff) so they´re attracted to him, so he gets the most offspring – out of his offspring the one that is best at getting power the one that gets most offspring.
The reason for why the brain grew so fast during the past 100 000 years was because we used the brain to plan for how to climb upward in the hierarchy. The reproductive benefits coming from being high-status in the hierarchy were so great comparing to being low-status that this put great selection-pressure on bigger brains.
Now we basically have caveman living in hierarchical societies, we have kings, aristocrats and slaves – and that is how the world was 5000 years ago. The kings build monumental architecture (pyramids and such). Then someone focused on a random word – so someone focused on what we talked about in part 1: Reality (that of which all is part) and realized one cannot see it (because we should be part of it, or the other two proofs for not being able to see all there is to Reality) and thus they invented the word God: it is one, one cannot see it – we have the dawn of monotheism.
Someone random-focused on the word “soul/self” too and realized one gets less anxiety by making a distinction between the body
one sees in ones imaginations
(the body in one´s plans which tries to get reproduction, survival, resources, power, etc. – the three evolutionary principles that we listed in the beginning of this chapter). One sees a body in front of oneself which tries to make plans to get these things. But it is not that body which is “true” – instead it´s the observer which sees this body which is “True” – and one cannot see that observer because one is it all the time. This was when they invented the Soul.
So the words God and Soul are legitimate concepts – then the church added a bunch of things like “the soul is immortal” and that “God said this and that to one or another person” (prophets and so on whom lied about a bunch of things). We also have the Golden Rule “do onto others like you would like to have them do onto you” which is a universal thing that they surely have on other planets: we are all humans, we want to be treated as of equal value. So from evolution we went from having cavemen to that someone came up with these
simple
thoughts, and then the church added a bunch of clutter to them. We thus have religions´ beginnings. The ideas of soul (the True self/observer which can´t be seen) and God (that of which all is part is One) are scientific ideas – so to some extent we have the beginnings of science.
Then people invented the telescope and microscope (to discover the sizes in the size-range), and we have a lot of knowledge and upbringing – but this is more intellectual history instead of biological history/evolution – but the intellectual has its foundation in the biological. So now we have gone through the whole story from the first cells to the birth of science.
I try to make this into a theory that is agreed upon by everyone; nowadays there are people who say that God (defined as a metaphysical mind) is needed to understand the theory of evolution – that there are mysteries within evolution. But I see no mysteries in this.
In a future book we will look at consciousness: which kind of emotional repertoire we have. We already said that we want power, we want reproduction, we want resources… But we will look closer at exactly which emotions exist and into which categories one can categorize them – and why they came about (what their evolutionary histories/pressures are). Which exact emotions? The feeling that one wants power, the feeling that one wants to help the flock, the feeling that one wants to plan how to get reproduction… - everything we do / the things that we do. For example I wrote this book because I´m at “war” with the enemies of civilization (“the enemy tribe”), because I want power out of selling this, reproduction out of getting status from having found a new way of describing some things, helping
countries ravaged by religion to become civilized (“helping flock-members”)…
These things drive me to do something intellectual. The emotional repertoire – that is to say: the diagrams about the brain – we can look at in the next book, because now we´ve looked at evolution and evolution created the brain so there is a lot of overlap.
Part 3:
The dawn of religion
No-one knows which kind of God emerged first (in protohuman minds). Was it the contemplation on Part 1 of this book (the oneness of Reality and it’s unrepresentability – focusing on the most all-encompassing concept)? Was there a war between two tribes/groups and to avoid soldiers from
deserting one’s own group, the priest/king claimed to get his orders from a super-human invisible entity (which “looks better” than a mere human giving orders). Thinking
“they have a superhuman invisible commander while our group is just mere humans” is demoralizing for the group believing that the enemy has something mystical super-human communicating with their leadership. This kind of god is a tool of war. Or was the first God invented in dog-brain sized brains where a simple cortical circuit (the assotiations: the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) lessened anxiety. We are after-all craving for the approval of “the hierarchical top”, we fear it... we have all kinds of emotions toward it and it can be imagined to love me, to dictate procedures like prayers to me, etc. It’s such a simple cortical circuit to define the hierarchy’s top as “that of which all is part (Reality)” and say that it loves me. That’s basically three concepts (hierarhical top (Reality) protecting me) – and it alliviates anxiety and gets us through dark nights of the soul. For the simple reason that it feels good to activate that circuit we try to “drug ourselves” by activating it over and over, emphasizing our belief in it, teaching it to everybody. The “hierarchical top (defined as Reality) protects me”-emotion
is one of those good feelings that we can activate at will. When we genetically engineer super-positive feelings to be activated by words, those new animals will propably activate their best emotions like a drug-addict seeks drugs – but they can activate it with words.
The circuitry is simple enough and panic attacks are common enough that I think everyone activates that “...protects/loves me”-circuitry during their life-time. Some choose to call it “belief in God”, others “the hierarchical top (defined as that of which all is part) protects me” and others don’t use any words for it because it is as unnoticable as digestion – something that naturally occurs in certain circumstances and one doesn’t need to be arrogant or proud of having that circuitry because it’s like 3-4 concepts (memorizing 4 concepts whom’s associations make us feel better is not a big feat).
Whichever type of God came first is lesser of a question, though, than: is heaven the same thing? Can “heaven” (and “hell”) be interpreted in a way that it makes sense? Heaven is obviously not a location in the sizerange (we don’t move in the sizerange when we die), so is heaven outside the entire theory (and thus “outside” (though this thing has no outside) that of which all is part)? No. Heaven may be synonomous to being good, and not some location in the diagram.
Maybe heaven is what the future genetically engineered super-happy animal will be in all the time.
Summary
Now that we know the three-pillar existential theory (like infinitely many extraterrestrials in infinite space thinks about it), we’ve got the beginning of evolution with a tiny DNA-strand (first reproduction sparking the three first evolutionary rules (1,2,3) and then the 4
th
(power). At the same time we see a continuum all the way to understand religions.
Since the infinitely many extraterrestrials are like us – they share the same logical evolutionary principles in sets following one another along time in a triangle-shape because increasing complexity is shown along the triangle.
It’s not like I don’t sometimes focus on the sentence “top of the hierarchy (defined as that of which all is part) loves and protects me” (“belief in God” in religious language).
Aliens can also prioritize what to focus on; what to take more off and what one wants to take less of. Aliens “judge” us based on principles like maximum happiness for all (animals, all humans), “do onto others like you’d want them do to yourself”. These are simple universal rules that aliens follow to maximize happiness in an otherwise brutal dog-eat-dog world.
On a common but erroneous rebuttal to my allegedly faul
t
y logic where I connect Kantian “the thing is not the thing itself” to “that of which all is part cannot be observed” (and thus there is more to the sizerange than... there is infinitely much
). I don’t jump from Kant to stating that there is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram.
I use another intellectual tradition parallell to Kant’s: it’s t
he intellectual tradition of playing with the word “observed/represented”.
How vaguely does the universe define this word? Answer: 0.
När jag studerade så var det en kurs om Kant som sa att "the map is not the territory", men jag hade associerat den tankebanan (vilken vi båda förstår och kan kalla Kantisk) med NLP (neuro-linguistic programming). Hursomhelst så håller vi med varandra om att Kant har rätt. Det finns en annan tankebana, dock, dvs ett extra-tillägg till Kants förståelse) och den handlar om tankeexperimentet att leka med ordet "representera" och hur vagt universum har definierat det ordet. I princip kan vad som helst representera vad som helst.
Barn har inte från början enbart den Kantiska tankevärlden gällande detta utan går gärna med på att "that of which all is part cannot be observed" (lek med ordet "observed" och hur vagt det är definerat i universum). Det betyder i sin tur att till allt det möjligen representerbara (på storleks-tids-diagrammet) finns mer; vi kan "observera" (spekulera) kring någonting oändligt mycket mindre än kvantmekaniken och ändå finns det mer är kan representeras (och här menar jag representeras utan människor).
To me, what’s worth noticing is the existential theory which predicts a tiny DNA-strand is more interesting because it is HOW God created the universe, or if you prefer: you remove God and the existential theory rests firmly on its three pillars.
To me, the core of religion seems to be different emotions to and from the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”). The context of course is hierarchical animals which were preceded by group-dwelling animals (we talked about this in part 2 of this book: evolution).
Having a simplistic association of concepts (merely the 3-4
concepts: hierarchical top – defined as that of which all is part – protects/loves/etc me) gives a relief of anxiety, fear, loneliness etc. Having the more complex picture of the same thing – the context surrounding it – makes the whole thing mundane because we realize that “hierarchical top” refers to our wolf-like nature and “that of which all is part” comes as an infinite sizerange.
As I’ve said I agree with the words Soul (true self vs false self; observer of the body in one’s plans vs. the body in one’s plans) and God (defined as “that of which all is part” and synonymous with Reality). But Heaven is a tricker question – what does “heaven” mean? It is obviously no unknown size-range
in the infinite sizerange nor a location in space, nor can it be “outside” [that of which all is part]. I acknowledge that believing in heaven gives the same kind of fear-relief as “the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) protects me”, but like I said: I have trouble not being complex and analyzing “the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) protects me” (putting it in it’s sizescalian and evolutionary context), and with “Heaven” I have even more trouble because the single simplest thought ruins that idea. If I were to try to “believe in Heaven” I’d have to focus so hard that my mind doesn’t wander to even the most closely associated or easily retrieved scientific concept (because that destroys heaven). I do believe in doing good out of solidarity, and that doing good will reak its rewards for the millions of coming generations.
So to me Holy Books tend to contain only the following: different emotions to and from the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) , scientific truths like that Reality cannot be seen, heaven & hell and rituals.
Other than material pleasures like humor, I think we can find
condolence
in that being something in nothing with a bleak evolutionary story is more grim than we feel it to be; the truth hurts but not as much as we can feel. We are worse off than we realize and we should be happy we don’t fully feel our meaningless depressing situation which is made sense of in an unintuitive (and thus gives the feeling of confusion) way
(I’m thinking mainly of the three-PILLAR existential theory).
In Holy Books I also tend to find what I’ll relate to you in an anecdote: I was sitting in the back-seat of a car on vacation in a country which I had fallen in love with, whilst winter was raging in my home country. The driver of the car asked if I wanted a hazelnut croissant. I thought what was more important of a topic was for me to whine about that I don’t ever want to leave this country, I want my vacation to last longer, I don’t want to go back to the darkness and snow. So I said “I don’t want to go back to Sweden 🙁 !!” and the driver asked “what does this have to do with the hazelnut croissant?”. I put my answer in a joke: “the connection between the two topics is very deep and significant, but it’s hard to explain: it’s mysterious – and that’s religion.” I tend to find, to say the least, unintuitive associations between concepts in holy books (not meant as jokes).
War and Boredom
Author
yonis
Posted on
31/12/2016
06/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on War and Boredom
2 Nobel Prizes
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/Untitled-Project2.mp4
Author
yonis
Posted on
12/12/2016
14/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on 2 Nobel Prizes
V 2-4
V2-4
Author
yonis
Posted on
08/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on V 2-4
Existential theory (2)
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/We-are-evolution-2.mp4
Author
yonis
Posted on
07/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Existential theory (2)
Summary in video (10 min)
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/Untitled.mp4
Author
yonis
Posted on
05/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Summary in video (10 min)
Latest version of my book
Warrior of Boredom
The title of this book refers to that it is hard to get through this book. The reason why this new science (that I present in this book) hasn’t been discovered until I did is because it’s depressing, anxiety-giving and BORING. But the question is: does everyone agree on it? If they do, that changes the Israel-Palestine-conflict where the parties of God are vetoing “the holy land”. Religion is the biggest cause for hate in the world, as Hitchens said. My book defeats religion – it’s a minimalist theory that works completely – a theory of Everything: existence (why there is size itself), evolution – even thoughts on the methodology for doing politics.
Philosophy = honor,
but anxiety/depression and boredom. Religion = no honor,
but less anxiety/depression and less boredom.
The big picture, accounting of everything, conflicts with certain positive-thinking brain-tricks and with our bias toward ignoring some negative/depressing aspects of nature.
The first part of this book will be a more detailed discourse about the following paragraph:
Descartes proved that there is distinction (between thinker and thought) - what's the opposite of distinction: "that of which all is part" (Reality). Since we are stuck in Descarte's thinker and thought-realm we can't see Reality, nor can "whatever" not represent it, meaning that there's more to it than can be contemplated/represented. Since all objects we know of fit in a size-time-diagram, this argument must mean that there is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram - and this in turn leads us to an existential theory (a theory about why there is size in the first place).
I realize that’s too fast of a paragraph to convince everyone and thus I want to convince the readers of this book to be warrios or boredom and see all my arguments.
Lecture 1
Descartes
One of the aims of this course is to get EVERYONE to agree so that they have the same associations between scientific concepts.
There is no other proper way to accomplish this goal than by starting with certain truth, which was found by Descartes in the 1600s. He lived in a time where they believed in demons, Gods etc. so he postulated a thought experiment where he assumed an almighty demon was fooling him in everything he could be fooled in: what would remain as certain truth – what could he not be fooled in?
If he was being fooled, where would still be a “he” (or self) there to be fooled, meaning that the self certainly exists. A self is necessary for a self to be fooled.
Descartes had thus concluded his own existence.
Being fooled is thinking – thus thought exists. “There is thought” Descartes concluded as certain truth. The word “fooling” represents a thought-process.
Descartes found the starting-position for any inquiry about truth: we can know certainly that thinker and thought exists.
Distinction exists (a logical conclusion from the above)
Looking at what we´ve found as certain truth so far “from above” (meta), we can take the next logical step – adding a third factoid to our 2-statement (A and B above) starting position: that there is distinction (
between
thinker and thought). The fact that thinker and thought are two separate entities concluded to be certain truth
s
through two
different
logical pathway
s
lets us conclude that “distinction exists”
. There are what Chinese philosophy calls “the ten thousand things” (referring to the world) – there are at least two (three if we include “distinction” as th
e third thing) certain entities, and empirically we know there are “ten thousand things” (not taking the number 10 000 literally but just referring to multiplicity).
First universal diagram
We can draw the thinker and thought and distinction between them as two dots with a line between them on a piece of paper (fig. 1).
Now we have something all religions agree on
– we´ve drawn up ideas and associations between them. Everyone ought to have the same associations (explanatory thoughts) between the concepts we´ve looked at so far.
We have, if you will – in figure 1 – a universal diagram.
Reality
We have the capability to conglomerate many separate entities under the rubric of a single category. If we use this capability to collect the “ten thousand things” (distinct entities) we´ve found so far into a single thing, we ought to give that thing a word/name. Its definition can be “that of which all is part” and “the opposite of separation/distinction”. I will use the word Reality to refer to this all-encompassing thing.
In lecture 2 I will present three proofs for that “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, but for now we can draw (adding to figure 1) a dot with a cross over it – the cross to symbolize that the dot itself is a false representation of Reality because we (the observer/self/thinker) should be part of that dot. See fig 2.
Thinking about what we´ve got so far
Thinking about what we´ve got so far (fig. 2) it’s a bundle of associations which make universal inter-religious (all religions agree on it) knowledge with both words and pictures.
In the next lecture I present why the line in fig 2 (see fig 3) represents the opposition/antagonism/disagreement/contraposition/divergence/variance between the two sides of the paper; between “thinker and thought” on one side of the paper and “Reality (that of which all is part; the opposite of separation)” on the other side of the paper.
Worth noting now is that the left side of the paper represents separation/distinction whilst the right side of the paper represents the opposite of separation/distinction – both are legitimate ideas: thinker and thought – and distinction – is certain truth based on Descartes and we all know which idea we refer to when talking about the all-encompassing [that of which all is part] Reality.
In the next lecture we will talk about why the line in fig. 3 makes it so that we can´t see Reality – I will present three proofs like in a crime case, and we will talk about what we can see if we can´t see Reality.
Making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far
1
See fig. 1 again: it´s our starting-point and the thinking that occurs in it happens in Descartes “realm of mind”; it is the mind´s realm (the left side of the paper) in which the thinking happens, and one thing we talk about is Reality on the right side of the paper in fig 3. Since the line in fig. 3 represents both the legitimacy of the ideas on both sides of the paper, and simultaneously the opposition between separation/distinction (on the left side of the paper) and [the opposite of separation/distinction] on the right side of the paper. That opposition is important and I will show its significance in lecture 2.
2
Starting from Descartes realm (of if you will: assuming that all we know is what we know for certain), we have the capability to state that there is a single Reality of which all is part – so even though we see separation we must grant that that separation (all entities) fits into a category we call Reality. There is a unifying whole even though the human mind (Descartes realm) is limited in its ways when it tries to contemplate Reality.
Not only is there the map-territory distinction (which will be presented as one out of three proofs in lecture 2), but there is also a more fundamental opposition between distinction and its opposite (there is a more fundamental opposition between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3). Not only are we stuck in the map-territory-distinction-realm but we also can conclude that no representation (regardless of the mind) is equal to Reality (on a more fundamental level than the map-territory-problem).
Representation is done in the brain using neurons and in a computer using electrons, but there is no reason why the most distant atom or quark couldn´t be proposed to be a symbol for [that of which all is part] – and even in that brainless scenario we will see in lecture 2 that “that of which all is part cannot be represented”. The map-territory-distinction is just proof/evidence number two in lecture 2 (for that we cannot see Reality and thus, since we do see/represent something, there must be more to Reality than can be represented i.e. the size-time-diagram (presented in lecture
2) is infinite along both axes.
Proof 3 in lecture 2 removes the brain from the equation and still proves that there is more to Reality than can be seen/represented/symbolized (using any means/any method – even without a brain), and since some representation is obviously (since we know that there are minds) possible, there must be more than can be represented/contemplated i.e. the size-axis is infinite and the time-axis is infinite in that two-axis diagram.
3
Both sides of the paper in fig. 3 are legitimate ideas. But still they are opposites (separation on one side and the opposite of separation on the other side). How can two derived-from-logic sides of the paper be opposites but still both be legitimate?
Usually opposition – like between Democrats and Republicans – means that one is right and the other is wrong; they can´t both simultaneously be right: you can´t meaningfully vote for both parties at the same time.
The case is different between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3: both sides are right and they are opposites.
There is a single Reality and there is multiplicity in distinction.
What does this mean? That there is more to the size-time-diagram than anything could represent – any representation fails (you can think of some
examples/suggestions for how to represent [that of which all is part]/[the opposite of separation]) – and thus the axes on the size-time-diagram are infinite. This is a hither to unpresented fact in science – it is new science: some of the best scientists ignorantly believe that the size-range is limited/finite.
4
We have quite a few associations and symbols in fig. 3 which must be agreed upon, and here I´m using the word “must” in the sense that “by the rules of logic X must be true”. Other civilizations throughout the infinitely many galaxies there are use the exact same ideas (but in a different language) and have the same associations between them (that there are infinitely many galaxies is derived from that the size-axis in the size-time-diagram is infinite). There is distinction as the third truth to be added to Descartes two fundamental truths (thinker and thought exist), and all that is opposed to (on the other side of the paper in fig. 3) to the all-encompassing Reality which is defined using at least two definitions: that of which all is part and the opposite of separation.
I´m tri-lingual but I write the same ideas and associate them in the same ways no matter which language I write in – its universal science beginning from certain truth. On other planets that have civilizations my writings in this book ought to match up quite near to the writings creating the same lecture series based on universal science that I´m creating
– “alien”/exo-planet
lecture series proceed, beginning from certain fact, through logical steps as I do.
5
[Thinker and thought] (certain truth) and thus distinction/separation are associated through negation/opposition to the right side of the paper in figure 3: Reality. The left side is not the right side just like separation is not its opposites. Both being legitimate ideas, though, connects them in the way that thinker and thought (and all other distinct entities) are in the category Reality.
Even though Reality and distinction are opposites, distinction dwells in (as a sub-entity within the category) Reality.
The associations between the left and right sides of the paper in figure 3 are both united through the notion “opposition” and through the notion that distinction is inherent in Reality (Reality being the opposite of distinction
because we have all-encompassing and its opposite: composite parts).
6
It is certainly true that all is part of a single Reality; but it is equally true that in every observation there is an observer and hence distinction (between thinker and thought). We see separate entities is as true as that the self that we are is not in front of us – but everything we see (thought/object) is in front of us.
That is evidence 1 in lecture 2 (not a proof, but a mere suggestion/evidence that [that of which all is part cannot be observed] and thus there is more to Reality than our concept of [infinitely much].
All we know about Reality has two properties: a size and a time. Size and time are two axes on a diagram, and thus all we know fits into the size-time-diagram (every object or location in space has a size and time).
There is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram because all suggested representors for Reality fail
(for three reasons taken up in lecture 2).
7
All
bundles of associations in this chapter “making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far”
are written in order to create some universal brain structures (universal because
science is the same everywhere (on all exo-planets), and their brains make the same associations too eventually). It´s not some random bundle of associations nor did I randomly present random ideas.
I assume the brain structure created by understanding this book is a replica of something derived from science; a replica of brain structures on the infinitely many other civilization-bearing planets. It´s a universal “ideology”, if you will.
Everyone has a possibility of sharing it in agreement – and future lectures will add a whole lot of complexity to it; agreement tends to build friendship so study is a way of bringing more peace to the world.
Once the full world-view is presented throughout this book, it´s a way of pacifying the world.
8
We have two brain-halves: one linguistic and one visual. So far we´ve both drawn pictorial representations and connected words – both brain-halves have been working. The connections across corpus collosum (which sits between the brain-halves and connects them) that connect a linguistic narrative/explanation to the pictorial representations are one day found in all humans thanks to science. Our brains are becoming more as science has a propensity to make them be.
This course itself, since it begins with certain truths and builds upon it logically, is a universal course (to the best of my ability).
The brain cells that constitute the negation (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 3) or opposition are not the same kind of cells (they are inhibitory neurons) that connect thinker with though as both being certain truths (but the thinker is not the thought and thus has inhibitory cells making that brain-structure work too
(what you are is not in front of you;
what you are is not visible).
Since both Reality and [what you are]/self/observer/thinker are invisible the brain might erroneously and spontaneously try to associate them, so a brain-structure is needed to inhibit that association (and replace it with a more complex explanation). That spontaneous but erroneous association is something all thinking animals throughout the universe evolved to do, and the inhibition of it through culture/civilizing/science is universally available within complex enough civilizations throughout the universe.
As you can see the brain structures responsible for doing this thing are quite complex, but also universal and thus accessible to all humans, and predictably will someday be in all humans (fostering agreement, thus friendship, thus peace).
Lecture 2
Perceive, apprehend, notice are synonyms for our representing ability, but I will use the word “see” or “observe” to refer to all of these. The goal of this lecture is to prove the statement “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, Reality being defined as “that of which all is part”. In other words: we cannot see Reality, and thus there is more to Reality than even can be contemplated (i.e. infinitely much).
I will build this lecture like a criminal court case: I will present three proofs for that we cannot see Reality i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated i.e. (since we can contemplate anything (right or wrong)) Reality is infinite.
Since anything/everything we know about Reality has some size and time, it fits into a size-time-diagram. See fig. 4.
In fig. 4 size is represented along the vertical axis and time along the horizontal axis. The objects humans see in everyday life (from the horizon to a single cell as one “pixel” in our visual field) are marked in “the human range”.
See fig 5.
In fig. 5 I´ve drawn the same diagram as in fig. 4 but this time with infinity-symbols in each corner of the squareical size-time-diagram. Two infinite axes become a square.
Proof number 3 in our “court case” for proving that the size-time-diagram (Reality) is infinite has us imagine the unobservable separatenessless Reality and ask whether there is a maximum or minimum size to/in it (a maximum/minimum being separateness while we are talking about the opposite of separation). This is again to confirm that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes.
The line we drew in fig. 4 was for separating the two sides of the paper; opposing “thinker and thought” (distinction) with its opposite: one all-encompassing non-distinction Reality. That opposition-line is what this lecture is about since it proves that the two sides of the paper are
separate/opposing realms and we are stuck in one realm as long as we are observers (because observation is separation/distinction (thinker and thought)).
Proving that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes is new science because it poses the question: what happened before the Big Bang (14 billion years ago), and it presents one pillar of our existential theory: that each size is the reason for each next and previous size, and the size axis is infinite, meaning the “beginning” of the relationship between sizes keeps retreating into infinity the more we contemplate the range of the size axis.
When I presented fig. 4 for the first time I drew a cross over the dot symbolizing Reality for the plain reason that we (as observers) should be part of that dot, and by the very nature of us being separate (and the dot representing the opposite of separation) we should draw a cross over it symbolizing that we cannot see it.
The main proof though is that even if all observers were dead there´d still be, inherent and fundamental in nature, the opposition between distinction and distinction´s opposite (the two sides of the paper in fig. 4). The line is an opposition-line and it is more fundamental than being dependent on humans/observers – it refers to all representation whether it’s using/including humans or not. I am, in other words, not talking about the map-territory distinction (which symbolizes that humans have mental maps and not the real world per se; like Kant said: we have “the thing” and not “the thing itself”). Proof 2 – the opposition-line between the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 – is not subjective: it is true that we live with the map-territory-distinction but even if I died there´d still be separate things (chairs separate from cups), that kind of separation is not dependent on me/observers. Simultaneously the flipside of the coin (the other side of the paper in fig. 4) is true too: all is one single Reality (the opposite of separation). Proof 2, in other words, should not be interpreted as signifying the map-territory distinction (human subjectivity) but instead a fundamental opposition in the universe.
If we do not see Reality, then what do we see? Everything we see fits into the size-time-diagram, and since the opposition-line in fig. 4 shows that there is a fundamental rule that states, in 3 different proofs, that Reality is infinite / there is more than can even be contemplated / there is more than even non-subjective representation can represent.
Proof number 1 is really weaker than a “proof” – it´s more like evidence. It wouldn´t hold up in a court but it is a way of stating what the other proofs too point towards. Proof 1 is what we saw when presenting figure 4: any dot representing Reality is an incorrect representation because the observer should be part of the object – the thinker should be part of the thought. It denies Cartesian separation and thus is untrue, meaning that anything we draw on the right side of the paper in fig. 4 is incorrect.
We can contemplate anything: we can speculate about what´s smaller than quantum physics, or even what´s smaller than that, etc. into infinity. We are probably wrong, but any contemplation/representation counts as a contemplation – and since we know that, whether right or wrong as our contemplations may be, there is more to Reality than can be contemplated, it follows that there must be infinitely much to Reality. Since all we know about Reality fits into a size-time-diagram, the minimalist approach is to state that it´s the size-time-diagram that is infinite.
This warrants two new words: the knowable/known size-range and the infinite size-range. The knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range. Since Einstein unified space (size) and time, one cannot be infinite without the other one being the same. Science today doesn´t know whether there was a “before” to the Big Bang or not (whether time was created at the Big Bang), but now we know that the Big Bang is just an event on an infinite time axis. In a future lecture we will talk about how/why the Big Bang recreates (happens over and over).
We talked about universal diagrams (and universal brain-structures) in lecture 1. The size-time-diagram is one major universal diagram. A lot of detail can be added to it because all fields of science fit into it. The infinity-symbols on each axis of the squareical diagram are drawn, based on science, on exo-planets with advanced enough civilizations.
This lecture is about proving that [that of which all is part] (the opposite of separation) i.e. Reality cannot be observed/represented, and that this fact is true irrespective of whether we are observers or dead, and applying this to the size-time-diagram (which gets its infinity-symbols into the squareical diagram).
Proof number 2 (the main proof) is the oppositional approach between Reality and distinction, and it is not subjective because Reality and Reality´s opposite exist even if we were dead. Proof number 3 is about imagining (even though no imagination is it) Reality as a big gray (because energymass is white and spacetime is black) solid, in which we know no observer should be (because observation is separation) – does it have separation i.e. a biggest and a smallest size? No, because such distinctions are not in the opposite of distinction (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 4).
I´ve mentioned universal associations in the brain / exo-planet science, so talking about the size-time-diagram we can add more universal notions to it: why did I draw upwards on the size axis as larger and downward as smaller? Why is the time-axis horizontally drawn instead of vertically? The diagram works even if we would define the vertical axis as time and the horizontal axis as size – so why do we draw size vertically and time horizontally? Is it universal i.e. on other planets or just a human convention like writing from left to right in English-speaking countries and right to left in Arabic-speaking countries?
Evolution has it so that during the history of science telescopes look upward and microscopes look downward. This would be the case on other planets too: they turn their heads upward to see the large and downward (onto a table) to see the small; the opposite can´t be true on any planet. Thus we get the size axis´ standard (of upward being larger) from evolution / the history of science. I use the word “standard” because it comes from evolution rather than being more fundamentally hard-wired into the universe such as the fact that the size-time-diagram is a square with infinity symbols. That the size-time-diagram is a square is not a standard – it is something stronger than that. The fact that we represent time on the vertical axis (and upward as larger) comes from a weaker source: tradition (even though that same tradition is true on all planets; evolution, in this regard, happens the same on all planets that end up with civilizations).
We thus have added standards or weak conventions (derived from history) in addition to having strong diagrams like the size-time-diagram being a square. The distinction between the two is made based on science and is thus made on exo-planets.
Scientists are looking for exo-planets that bear civilizations. If the size-range is infinite – as we´ve proven that it is – then each particular size (like the human range in fig. 5) is infinite too; if the largest is infinitely large then there is, considering the size of a human, an infinite distance in any direction that that human could find itself in. This makes civilizations on other planets a must, not an assumption. The known/knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range, and within the known size-range there is a range in which evolution occurs (between the smallest cells and the biggest organisms), and since we´ve proven that there are infinitely many objects within/of that size-range, then there must be infinitely many locations in which evolution occurs.
In the next lecture we will bind together the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 (distinction and distinction´s opposite; “thinker and thought” opposing Reality) with E=mc
2
(energymasspacetime) and with the infinity of the size-time axes, into a single existential theory which is a rival to “God created earth in 6 days…” The existential theory is a minimalist account for why there is a sizescale in the first place, and why there is something (energymass) rather than nothing (spacetime). It reminds me of this passage: “HITCHENS: In other words, as the great physicist Laplace said when he demonstrated his working model (his orrery, as it’s called) of the solar system to the emperor and Napoleon said, “Well I see there’s no God in this system,” and Laplace said, “Well, Your Majesty, it works without that assumption.””
In this chapter I´ve presented three proofs for that the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in it i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated; we do represent something but however we choose to represent (even representations that can be proposed as thought-experiments if we were dead) we do not represent Reality i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality. Are there any counter-arguments saying that the size-time-diagram is finite? I built this lecture like a court case and I´d like to hear the opposing side. There are no arguments that oppose what I´ve proven so far.
Lecture 3
E=mc
2
E=mc
2
as an equation is only used in relativistic scenarios such as very high speed or very high energy, but since speed is a continuum the equation is true at slower speeds. There is a difference between the equation being applicable (being needed while solving equations) and it being true; it is always true everywhere but it is not needed for equations except in special scenarios.
An example of the equation being true everywhere and always is this: nuclear power-plants turn mass (kilograms) into energy (joule), so that if you input 1 kg of uranium-mass you get out 99.9999 kg of waste products – some of the mass turned into energy which lights our light-bulbs. The atoms that lost some weight (that weight was converted into energy) are atoms just like other kinds of atoms, for example in autumn leaves. If you´d drop leaves into the core of the sun, the sun´s nuclear furnace would turn mass in the leaves into energy (light). Hence all objects are subject to the E=mc
2
-rule, which states that energy (E) equals mass (m). This warrants the word energymass because they are no longer two distinct things – they are but different manifestations of the same thing. In the brain
energymass should be a single idea whilst the concepts “energy and mass” refers to two different forms of a single idea.
Verbs and adjectives tend to refer to energy (shining, running, etc.) while nouns refer to mass (body, tree, etc.) E=mc
2
states that the two (verbs/adjectives and nouns) are together in a single equation. Although only applicable in relativistic scenarios (the role of relativism becomes close to zero in everyday human events, except that our light-bulbs shine because mass turns into energy and the sun can makes leaves into light), E=mc
2
is in a “philosophical” sense true everywhere and always just like Pythagoras’s theorem about triangles remains “philosophically true” even where there are no physical triangles. You wouldn´t say 1=1 is not true in empty space just because there are no objects there to count as “1”.
In addition to energymass being a single concept (and not two distinct ones), spacetime gets added into the mix by the c
2
-part of the equation. c is the speed of light (km/h) and thus a distance (space) over time – spacetime! Energymass (E=m) and spacetime (c
2
) should in the brain be represented by a single idea which we can call energymasspacetime. This harkens back to the previous lectures about Reality, which is a synonym for energymasspacetime. Einstein invented the equation E=mc
2
and thus unified in it energymass with spacetime – and synonyms for energymass are “existence” or “1” while synonyms for spacetime are “non-existence”, “emptiness”, “nothing” and “zero”. There is no more to be considered regarding Reality than energymasspacetime; energymasspacetime involves everything (energymass) and nothing (spacetime) so there is nothing more to be considered/added to Reality – Reality is energymasspacetime; everything is included into Reality once we have defined Reality as energymasspacetime.
The Existential Theory
Each culture seems to have a creation myth (such as genesis) – the creation of the cosmos/world/Reality is something humans have invented hypotheses for during millennia. The stories answer the question “why are we here?”
The true answer is unintuitive. First of all: why is there any particular size? What justifies, say, the size of a molecule? The answer is: the smaller and the larger (the rest of the size-range). Atoms justify a molecule and a molecule exhibits a place for atoms to live in: justifies atoms. Humans need an earth to dwell on (the earth is larger) and humans are made of cells (cells are smaller). Each size bears a relationship upon each other size – the smaller justify the larger and the larger justify the smaller. Since the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all four corners of the square (because of the proof where we had two sides of a paper), the size-range is infinite i.e. the pattern of justification between/amongst sizes continues into the infinitely large and infinitely small. What the ancients called “the first cause” keeps retreating into infinity size-wise the more we contemplate it. The size-range is like a fractal: you can keep zooming in or out infinitely much, and the question “why is there this particular object that I see” has its answer in the relationship between all the sizes: justification. Infinite justification is the reason why there is a size-range at all. But there is more that is needed for a full-fledged existential theory: two more factors play their roles.
Spacetime is emptier than we can imagine/represent it. We (and all representeurs) are energymass and thus are the opposite of spacetime. We could let a piece of empty space represent spacetime, but as soon as we use energymass (such as our brains) to do so, we´ve lost the truly empty nature of
spacetime: it is unimaginably empty. Any bundle of neurons, no matter how we wire it, is still the opposite of what they want to represent when they want to present us with spacetime. It is therefore useful to have two concepts for spacetime: (1) our simplest intuition of spacetime and (2) additional defining language explaining that spacetime is emptier than (1). This is how exoplanet civilizations would wire their brains regarding the concept “spacetime” too, just because it’s the most accurate science they can manage.
Just like energy and mass are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon, energymass and spacetime are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon. What does it mean for spacetime to be bundled together with (intertwined with) energymass? Everything exists as/in/because of nothing; 1 exists in 0; energymass and spacetime are together in the E=mc
2
-equation. Where could energymass/existence exist? In nothingness. Just like sizes justify one another, spacetime justifies energymass.
The last question that remains, after we have justification between sizes in an infinite size-range, and that all points in the size-time-diagram are made of energymasspacetime (and energymass is justified by it being in spacetime), is the objective fact that there both is a single Reality (the right side of the paper) and there´s its opposite: distinction (between, say, thinker and thought).
The existential theory builds on three “pillars”/fundamental ideas:
An infinite sizescale,
Energymasspacetime as in the equation E=mc
2
Distinction between distinction itself and distinction´s opposite (see fig. 1, 2, 3):
Between distinction (the left side of the paper, our 2 certain truths: I exist and there is thought) and Reality (the opposite of distinction; one Reality (not plural)) there is a line that demarcates distinction/opposition.
Putting it all into one phrase we might say: “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime with opposition between distinction and Oneness”. At its core it´s three ideas (infinite size-time-diagram, energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
), separation and intertwinedness (the two sides of the paper)). On exoplanets they would state their reason for their own existence using these three ideas too, because taken together they explain all that needs to be explained: first thing that comes to mind is that in the stated existential theory there must be a reproducing shape (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape; a DNA-strand) somewhere. If the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all three corners, then evolution ought to occur somewhere (and be made of energymass in spacetime, while being separate/distinct in a single intertwined Reality).
Most creation-myths have a quite simple (one-pillared) and mundane story: for example genesis just states that God created Reality (that of which all is part) in 6 days and rested on the 7
th
. The scientific rival to all such creation stories is a three-pillared theory – we can´t make it any simpler (we can´t make it one-pillared) and the same would be the case on exoplanets: they too can only break it down to three interconnected ideas/pillars/fundaments, so in thinking this way we share a common intellectual history with exoplanet civilizations advanced enough to figure out this existential theory.
On a test on this subject a question might be: “what are the three pillars of the existential theory?” – the question can´t be “what is the most important pillar in the existential theory?” All pillars are equally important but constitute as distinct ideas as E=mc
2
is from infinite size, or the separation-intertwinedness-opposition (fig. 3).
This three-pillared creation story – the sum of these three chapters – is built upon logic: it includes certain truths like “I think and I exist” (distinction/separation), its opposite (Reality for which we have three proofs for that it can´t be observed/seen/contemplated i.e. the size-time-diagram is infinite), E=mc
2
which unifies nothing/spacetime with existence/energymass, and the relationship between any two sizes (justification along the infinite size-range). Every one of these ideas relates very closely to Descartes´ certain truth, meaning we can be sure of the ideas themselves – and they together build up a minimalist existential theory which needs no further logic to explain everything there is.
Having an infinite size-range has a predictive quality to it too – it makes a prediction: there ought to be evolution (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar mass) somewhere in the diversity we see throughout even the known size-range.
Though as non-intuitive as the 3-pillar existential theory may be to our evolved brains who want a single conclusion, exoplanet civilizations have the same limits and biases as us: they too are stuck with three pillars in a single theory to make the theory explainable. Science is creating universal (exoplanet) neural pathways in our brains. We should embrace the fact that by being non-intuitive but true, this science wires our brain based on science and thus universally. It is the way (the wiring) that all planets are headed to if they´re into science. It´s a universal world-view. We´re thinking like aliens.
In current scientific debates the religious will argue that faith (in a dogma) is needed to (what they call) “understand” the existence of the universe. If confronted with my theory (these lectures) they´d have to agree that logic makes their God unnecessary as a pillar of creation. In the best case scenario God is simply a synonym for Reality (because Reality is “that of which all is part” and thus God ought to be part of it too, and all we know about Reality is that it is energymass in spacetime and separation in intertwinedness).
Having an explanation – the negative side of it is it being three-pillared and unintuitive, the positive side of it being that it accounts for all of Reality and predicts evolution – further justifies the saying “a God of the gaps” (meaning the more we understand the less we need God). Now all that remains to be understood – again in an unintuitive but identical to exoplanets -way – is how, on an infinite time-line, the Big Bang (denseness) recreates and fades away into sparseness (black holes removing energymass and dark energy creating more space until no galaxies are anymore visible).
Lecture 4
The beginning of the Big Bang
I have a hard time imagining how the universe can reach complete emptiness, but it wouldn´t be the first time the universe´s nature surpasses human intuition. In the history of science stars were observed to not move relative to one another on the night sky, and this was argued to prove that the size of the universe was much smaller than the now known size – it was argued that the universe would be “unreasonably big” if the stars didn´t seem to move relative to one another as the earth moved because they were so far away.
If only enough time is needed for the universe to become empty, then we get the starting scenario which is most reasonable: we start with emptiness (spacetime). Again, spacetime is emptier than our concept for it because we (and our concepts) are made of energymass.
If you move your hand one meter (from position 1 to position 2), the laws of nature that make your hand make sense were already in place in the space of position 2 before you moved your hand there. It´s not like the universe/spacetime was absurd in location 2 and only started to make sense regarding hands when you moved your hand there. We do not impact the laws of nature in such ways; instead the laws of nature are simultaneously and equally true at all locations and all times. In other words: Pythagoras’s theorem is true even in locations where there are no objects whatsoever, but the theorem is only applicable (to be applied) to triangles. In empty space there are no objects and thus no triangles, but Pythagoras´s theorem is true there anyhow – it does not suddenly become true (switch from being untrue to true) when a triangle is imagined or physically moved there. This applies to E=mc
2
too, which is just as much of a law of nature as Pythagoras´s theorem. E=mc
2
is true everywhere and always, though humans only apply (use) the equation in certain scenarios. Where triangles can be (in spacetime) there is also E=mc
2
. Laws of nature are fundamental and inherent in spacetime and do not come about depending on events (though our application/use of any particular equation is dependent on which event we´re analyzing).
There is distinction between the practical use of equations (to solve problems or understand a phenomenon) and the core nature of spacetime having laws of nature in it. Spacetime is a no-nonsense spacetime – we live in a rational (laws of nature-abiding) universe.
One law being E=mc
2
and another one being “if it is said it must exist” (meaning energymass can´t be mentioned in the laws of nature of spacetime without energymass existing), we get spacetime to summon energymass if the starting-point was complete emptiness. “If energymass is mentioned it must be summoned” (it is mentioned in E=mc
2
) is true because it would be a nonsense universe if it “talks” about energymass without there being any – just infinite space for eternity with laws of nature regarding energymass, but never any energymass appearing/being present. It would be a nonsense universe if energymass it mentioned but never exists. It would be akin to the universe telling lies (having all these rules like E=mc
2
but never applying them to anything), or the universe babbling gibberish (having inapplicable laws of nature).
Thus, E=mc
2
being a core property of spacetime itself and the “no gibberish”-rule applying, energymass must logically be summoned – but how and where? Extremely dense i.e. everywhere, in the smallest spaces, simultaneously. Why? Our starting-point is spacetime, which needs no prior justification because it is the opposite of existence: it doesn´t exist – it is emptier than our neurons make it out to be. In it Einstein´s theory of relativity is true, meaning that there is no center point (or in other words: all points are the center) so there is no center to the Big Bang. Another way of seeing it is that as soon as there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification), E=mc
2
became true in all locations (in the smallest spaces) simultaneously – no point in space was before another in having E=mc
2
be true in it. Spacetime having E=mc
2
as a core property has E=mc
2
be true everywhere simultaneously; once we have the launching-condition of empty spacetime, through E=mc
2
, energymass is summoned everywhere simultaneously.
This “everywhere” is all things within an event horizon, meaning that things moving away faster than the speed of light (due to dark energy/accelerating cosmic expansion) are not within our event
horizon: they are not part of what can be reasonably called “our 3-dimensional space” (from our location). Things are not part of our universe once their speed hits faster than the speed of light – and many locations, within the boundaries of their respective event horizons, will one day have all energymass moving away from them at speeds faster than the speed of light (this is just the observed fact of accelerating cosmic expansion). Such a finite space with no energymass within its event horizon (all energymass moving away faster than the speed of light) would constitute “completely empty space” i.e. our starting-point for the Big Bang (energymass being summoned due to E=mc
2
).
Consider an infinite size-range - it is made of energymasspacetime: if we draw it as the Y-axis on a diagram, there can´t be a region/length in it (such as the knowable size-range) which is completely empty forever. See fig. 6.
Because of the rules E=mc
2
and “if it is mentioned it must be summoned”/”no-nonsense universe” are true throughout the infinite size-range, there can´t be a region with just spacetime (with its laws of nature) because the laws of spacetime mention energymass; spacetime is inherently tied to and intertwined with energymass – existence and non-existence go together (at all sizes). There would be no logical breaking-point (a particular size) where energymasspacetime transitions into being just spacetime for a range of sizes and then transitions back into energymasspacetime; there is no logical breaking-point where the implications of E=mc
2
(the implication being: energymass and spacetime are in the same equation) stop to be true. The transition seen in fig. 6 is impossible (there is no “empty region”). Having an empty region would be akin to zooming into the decimals of pi and seeing no numbers for a specific array of decimals: 3.14159ÄÄÄÄ265359... The Ä´s can´t be there: it´s a continuous sequence of decimal numbers. There is no break/”empty region” in the continuous decimals of pi just as there is no region of the size-range that can be empty of energymass.
In this chapter I´ve written something akin to “
first
there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification unless you consider that the size-axis of the size-time-diagram is infinite),
then
there was E=mc
2
,
then
there was energymass summoned into the smallest spaces available (available = considered to be within an event horizon and empty)”. This harkens back to previous lectures´ talk about “alien logic” (how exoplanets think). To have it make sense to our brains we use the time-
distinctions “first, then and then” but the real distinction is not in time but in steps in a sequence of logic. In other words all the mentioned steps happened simultaneously to start the Big Bang: E=mc
2
was true as soon as there was spacetime, and as soon as there was that, energymass appeared as not to make the universe absurd (by it talking gibberish or it having an empty region like in fig. 6).
The end of the Big Bang
Telescopes observe that “space is being born” i.e. that the distances between clumps of energymass (galaxies) are getting larger, and at an accelerating pace too. Not only does the Hubble law state that an object a
million light
-
years
away would be receding from us at 21 km/sec and at double the distance twice the speed, but the law states that that speed (for example 21 km/sec a million light years away) is increasing. This is called accelerating cosmic expansion. It means that from our galaxy, when/if we look into the sky trillions of years in the future, we´d see no trace of any other galaxy let alone the cosmic microwave background (because their speeds have passed the speed of light and thus went beyond the event horizon). Once that object a million light years away from us which today is racing away at 21 km/sec reaches 299792 km/sec (the speed of light), it will pass from being within our event horizon to being outside our sphere of events.
This empties our universe or as Hitchens put it: “nothingness is coming”. Once that nothingness comes we have our starting point where we run through the logic of E=mc
2
–> “if it is mentioned it must exist/be summoned” (in order for the universe not to talk gibberish or the infinite size-range not to have a break in it) –> energymass begins as dense (because of relativity and because E=mc
2
is true everywhere simultaneously/equally).
We observe that nothingness (within event horizons) is coming, and beginning from nothingness there is unintuitive logic that has a predictive quality to it: the Big Bang should start dense. This theory works well with lecture 2´s proofs for that “there is more to Reality than can be represented” (the size-time-diagram is infinite) because size is essentially space, and space and time are intertwined into a single spacetime – hence: if size/space is infinite then time must be infinite too. In other words we have reoccurring Big Bangs interspersed along the time-axis of our size-time-diagram. As soon as a region bound by an event horizon becomes empty we have the universe´s no-nonsense-laws kicking in and E=mc
2
summons energymass (in the smallest sizes that are empty equally/simultaneously).
The sequence of consecutive Big Bangs´ beginnings (emptiness leading to energymass being summoned) and ends (accelerating cosmic expansion speeding things past a point´s event horizon and emptiness being summoned) are as infinite as the time-axis proved to be based on lecture 2´s proofs. Proving (in lecture 2) that spacetime is infinite fits perfectly with the reoccurring Big Bangs (when somethingness becomes emptiness and then emptiness summons somethingness).
There will in other words, between the beginning of a Big Bang and the end of that same Big Bang, be life within the conscious/human size-range (the different locations of that size already being infinitely many, see fig. 4).
Each size along the size-axis is defined as “3-dimensional infinite space” meaning there is infinitely much life with access to universal science (i.e. some version of this lecture-series), and within our region (bound by an event horizon) there is life between the beginning and end of Big Bangs. In addition I have hard to believe that a reproducing shape (and thus evolution) only occurs in only
one
size-range (the, for humans, knowable size-range) in an infinite size-range: there ought to be many sub-size-ranges as part of the infinite size-range where evolution occurs and can reach scientific knowledge. All life mentioned above, if they reach scientific understanding, would concur on the existential theory presented in these lectures (especially lecture 3 – the three pillars/foundations/ideas which together become a minimalist theory for why there is the infinite size-range of energymasspacetime in the first place).
This is not only exoplanet science – it is science between Big Bangs and it is science in regions of the size-axis far away (in size) from our knowable size-range. See fig. 7.
Summary
First we looked at Descartes’ ”thought exists” and ”the self exists”, claimed that it was two valid statements and pointed out the distinction between them. On the other side of the paper we wanted to represent anti-distinction (the opposite of distinction) defined as “that of which all is part” (Reality), and realized that since thinker/thought is stuck on the left side of the paper we can’t represent Reality. This is not only Kant’s “the thing is not the thing itself (the mental map is not the real territory)” but more importantly whatever cannot be taken to represent “that of which all is part” i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality.
All we know about Reality (atoms, humans, galaxies) fit into a size-time-diagram (every object has a size and a time), so the minimalist approach combining the above paragraph with this one is to use the first paragraph to prove that the size-time diagram has infinite
axes. This in turn leads to an existential theory which can be summed up as “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime” – and it has a predictive quality to it: somewhere in such an existence there would be a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape and thus we get reproduction/evolution.
So far we’ve looked at the theory of why size itself exists, why there is something rather than nothing – an existential theory beginning from certain truth and logically building its way up all the way to predicting evolution.
Part 2: Evolution
My explanation of evolution focuses on how important disease and bullying (power) was for evolution.
Power
means that
fish
were
fighting fish breeding more agressive fish = dinosaurs, then wolfpacks with an alpha male.
But even before and after those eras in evolution the rule of power was in play.
In part one we had an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime (including the intertwinedness-separation-opposition and the time-axis with repeating Big Bangs perpendicular to the size-axis) that predicts a reproducing shape i.e. a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape: reproduction in an infinite size-range.
This infinite size-range predicts reproduction.
Part one was about why there is a sizescale of energymasspacetime: the answers are that the sizescale is infinite and that energymass is in spacetime. It predicts that there should be a reproducing shape: say that it is a triangle which gathers surrounding lines into a similar triangle – then it has reproduced itself. The products of this reproduction obey three rules: directly when there was reproduction three rules came into play, I´ve listed them below as 1, 2, 3 but they are not in order (they came simultaneously):
1:
There is life and death: those who survive survive and those who die are not in the game anymore. “The surviving survive”. It´s so simple – we see it in everyday life today. But everything in evolution will come back to these three rules so we might as well do the banal and bring them up.
So directly when there was a reproducing shape - so in our part of the size-range a DNA-strand which split in the middle and became two DNA-strands – the copy either survived or died.
2: The second rule is that the number of offspring has significance. That is to say: if you get one child or five children or ten children, there is a difference between those numbers – and in evolution it´s a benefit to have more children. One can also have zero children, and that is approximately like being dead.
Some would say that evolution´s meaning (the main task of life) is to make more offspring – that it´s the scientific meaning of life – Nature´s meaning: to reproduce. But I would answer that evolution makes more offspring (that´s reproduction) and making more offspring gives evolutionary benefits, but Nature itself does not care – it does not care about whether we nuke ourselves or not. There is no God that looks upon us and cares. Even reproduction becomes meaningless in the larger perspective. But in evolution it has significance whether one has zero offspring or ten offspring.
Rule number two (number of offspring matters) just as simple as rule number 1 (that there is life and death; that some live and some die).
The third rule that appered... – well all three rules appeared simultaneously directly when there was reproduction in this sizerange. The third rule is that:
3: There is mutation in every generation-shift. Things change. It doesn’t make perfect copies. Your child (if you have one) is not an exact copy of yourself or your wife – it’s a mutation; a change.
These three rules – 1: that there is life and death, the surviving survive. 2: That there are different nuances in the number of offspring. 3: That there is mutation in every generation-shift – these three rules came into play directly when the first reproduction occurred. We will return to these three rules over and over again; they are like laws of nature that like God says shall work on life directly when the first life reproduces itself. These laws of nature didn’t exist before the first life reproduced itself – they were not active then. They became active directly when there was reproduction.
These are abstract laws that we will manufacture, then we have the physical reality of that in a puddle of water a strand of DNA – a cell – made copies/offspring. Then viruses came into the game and injected its own DNA into the ordinary cells, that is to say: hijacked their reproductive system to create virus-offspring. If this would´ve continued the ocean would´ve been filled with only viruses, so there has to be some next step which made it so that our type of life survived. But the viruses added a 4
th
law (one of these abstract laws)
and that is: if you can hijack someone else’s reproductive system to create your own offspring; if you can inject your DNA into somebody else´s cell so that it creates viruses – I call this “power”. We will return to this word when we for example look at dinosaurs (they became bigger because the men killed each other to get the women whom make offspring). This power-principle was one that came after the three first ones.
The first cells reproduced and we had these three rules, then viruses came and injected their DNA and used “power” to produce more viruses. Then we get an immune-system which kills viruses i.e. protects the original organism´s reproductive system from being hijacked by viruses. So the immune-system evolved to take back the reproductive principle (2: the number of offspring matters); for the fact that one should retain the reproductive capability for oneself – so that no virus can take it over. So power has a lot to do with the number of offspring – principle 4 has a lot to do with principle 2.
We have multicellular organisms with immune-systems, we have viruses around them – and it´s an arms-race between that the viruses mutate to overcome the immune-system and the immune-
system mutates to overcome the virus. Thus we have an evolutionary pressure on mutating the immune-system as much as possible as fast as possible (because the viruses mutate very quickly), and the best way to do that is to combine genes from two different organisms: a man and a woman. So sex has its beginning in viruses.
If this doesn´t make you feel comfortable contemplate this: the truth outweighs positive-thinking. But does one want to remove whatever spreads joy among people? Those who want to defeat the religious violence in the world (I think religion is the biggest unnecessary cause of hatred in the world) – one cannot defeat that without defeating all religiousness simultaneously. To want to defeat one part of religion but not the rest of it is like voting for the Republicans and Democrats simultaneously – it´s just unreal. Sadly one must remove the good to remove the evil. Meditation still remains and one can get a kind of anxietylessness from some thoughts still but in the big picture there are no reasons that support them anymore – it´s just a brain-trick that one does.
In our evolutionary story we had an immune-system which mutates, wants more mutations – we get two genders. Then men begin to war with each other (because, metaphorically speaking, women can produce offspring once a year while men can produce it every day – we have an imbalance; asymmetry). Why is it always men that start wars? It began with the first fish – we had multicellular life in our story so far, so they became a bit bigger, could swim around – we get fish: it´s easier to find food then and easier to move around. Directly when there were two genders there was one fish which evolved to use its teeth for killing other male fish. The first aggressor of course got the most offspring because there were no other men around. That´s why men go to war: they can produce offspring with so many women while a woman has no benefit from having 1000 men.
There´s a caveat to
this once we get to caveman tribes/wolf-packs where a woman secretly wants many men to provide resources to her child, but at least in the era between fish and dinosaurs the picture was simply based on asymmetric reproductive rates.
So then the male fish grow more aggressive, the child who is the biggest and has the sharpest teeth kills the other male fish, has the most offspring; and in the next generation, again: the child with the most aggression and biggest muscles gets the most offspring – that´s how we get to dinosaurs and T-rex. We had males competing/fighting with each other and that´s why T-rex is so large. That is, again, the power-principle: just like viruses took over the reproductive system from the first cells, T-rex takes away the reproductive system from his rivals by killing them. So this principle number 4 (power) lives on – it has caused/causes so much: it causes the first viruses, it causes T-rex, that fish become aggressive, that we get two genders (by viruses getting power – so we wanted to counter that power by immune-systems i.e. two genders).
These dinosaurs then, just like humans don´t seem to have (sarcasm), any concept of preserving natural resources – so they would´ve eaten up all their trees and not had any food left. But on our planet it seems to have been a meteor-strike which wiped them out, but on exoplanets i.e. overall in this evolutionary series of evolutionary pressures causing various principles (first the three first principles, then the 4
th
principle, immune-systems, two-genderedness, bigger
fish, fights between the fish, dinosaurs). The dinosaurs ate their natural resources and all large life dies - so only small rat-like/squirrel-like life-forms live on.
The trees grow back up – we get monkeys.
Groups tend to, in a fight – if it´s a group against an individual (one against many) – the group tends to win. So we monkeys form groups, fighting together for food against individualists. The individualists lost.
So we got this - or had it from the get-go (just like with the first aggressors) – instinct that makes us want to be highest in the hierarchy and thereby get all the women. Power again. But this time it´s a kind of human power – we saw power when viruses took over the reproductive systems, we saw power when dinosaurs outcompeted their rivals (the men), we see power when a bully goes to the top of the hierarchy, pushes down the other men – and the women want the bully´s resources (he has the most stuff) so they´re attracted to him, so he gets the most offspring – out of his offspring the one that is best at getting power the one that gets most offspring.
The reason for why the brain grew so fast during the past 100 000 years was because we used the brain to plan for how to climb upward in the hierarchy. The reproductive benefits coming from being high-status in the hierarchy were so great comparing to being low-status that this put great selection-pressure on bigger brains.
Now we basically have caveman living in hierarchical societies, we have kings, aristocrats and slaves – and that is how the world was 5000 years ago. The kings build monumental architecture (pyramids and such). Then someone focused on a random word – so someone focused on what we talked about in part 1: Reality (that of which all is part) and realized one cannot see it (because we should be part of it, or the other two proofs for not being able to see all there is to Reality) and thus they invented the word God: it is one, one cannot see it – we have the dawn of monotheism.
Someone random-focused on the word “soul/self” too and realized one gets less anxiety by making a distinction between the body
one sees in ones imaginations
21.12
Author
yonis
Posted on
30/11/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Latest version of my book
Del 2: Evolutionsteorin
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/del2-interse-evolution.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
14/11/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Del 2: Evolutionsteorin
Lecture 4
lecture-4
Author
yonis
Posted on
10/11/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Lecture 4
Few pages (Var vi är – where we are; the existential theory)
Var vi är
Varje bok som försöker få med sig alla i att ha en enda världsbild bör börja med Descartes säkra sanning. I mitten av 1600-talet omgavs Rene Descartes av multipla ”hur gjorden skapades”-teorier, den mess påtalade för honom var den kristna ”jorden skapades på 6 dagar och Gud vilade på den 7e”. Descartes, enligt mig, var på ett ateistiskt spår i.om. att han tvivlade på alla de skapelsemyter som fanns runtomkring honom. Han var före sin tid i.om. att han både uppfann koordinatsystemet och ”cogito ergo sum” (”jag vet helt säkert att jag tänker och att jag finns”). Här har vi en man som klurade ur att hans egna existens är 100% säker att tro på, och han gjorde detta genom att kasta bort all kunskap som han inte var 100% säker på. Man kan antingen säga att han gjorde tankeexperimentet att han möjligtvis var en hjärna i en skål som matades med elektriska signaler så att den trodde att den hadde en kropp osv, eller att en allsmäktig demon lurade honom i allt han kan luras i, eller det som skedde i filmen The Matrix. Det som kvarstod var att hans ”jag” existerade eftersom att bli lurad innebär att existera; det finns någon som blir lurad för denna någon att bli lurad i allt han kan bli lurad i. Likaså finns tankevärlden eftersom [att bli lurad] är att tänka; tankar finns om de så är lurade eller inte. Alltså uppfann Descartes ”jaget existerar” och ”tanken existerar”. Detta kan utvidgas till att separation (mellan tanken och jaget) existerar; de är två separata ting. Nu har vi alltså jaget, tanken och separationen som helt säkra sanningar. Målet med denna bok är att övertyga alla om en enda världsbild (som står i konflikt med andra skapelseberättelser, Adam och Eva, osv), och hittills håller alla med om det som står gällande Descartes uppfinning. Den här boken är byggd så att vi går enligt logikens metoder, steg för steg, från Descartes säkra sanning till att förklara var vi är, vad vi är osv (de stora frågorna).
Från Descartes tre sanningar (inkl separation som är en av dem) kan man gå längs två spår: ena alternativet är att fråga sig vad motsatsen till separation är och definera den som ”det som allt är del av”. Andra alternativet är att rita det koordinatsystem Descartes uppfann med två axlar: storlek på ena axeln och tid på andra (ett storleks-tids-diagram). Båda vägar är direkta spinoffs från Descartes säkra sanning om att han tänker och han finns.
Om man frågar sig vad motsatsen till Descartes separation är, så blir svaret meningen ”det som allt är del av” där ordet ”det” bör bördan av att hänvisa till någonting som inkluderar allt. Ingen separation existerar i den – den är motsatsen till separation. Vi kommer återkomma till den i framtiden då vi frågar oss huruvida vi kan se/röra/percipiera den ifall observation är separation (och separation ej får finnas i den). I forntida skrifter kallades den ”Gud” eller ”Verkligheten” eftersom dess definition är ”det som allt är del av (inkl. Gud)”.
Vi har idén vars definitioner är ”motsatsen till separation” och ”det som allt är del av” och vi kan kalla den ”Gud”, ”Verkligheten” eller vad vi vill. I framtiden kommer vi härleda att vi inte kan se/observera/percipiera den som sådan (som dellös), så att ha ett ord för den är lite som när judarna vägrar säga ”yahwe” om sitt mest övergripande koncept. Att ha ett ord för den skapar bara förvirring eftersom vi är vana vid att se varje ord, men nu har vi ett koncept som vi i framtiden kommer härleda inte kan ses (eftersom observation är separation och vi ”försöker se” motsatsen till separation).
Det andra spåret som börjar direkt från Descartes är att rita ett Cartesiskt coordinatsystem med en vertikal axel och och horisontell axel: på den vertikala axeln representerar man storlek (kosmologi högst upp, människans storlek i mitten, kvantfysik längst ned) och på den horisontella axeln representerar man tid. Detta går att göra eftersom Descartes hittade separation dvs rum i vilken man kan rita abstraka diagram såsom storleks-tids-diagrammet. Allt man känner till har en storlek och en tid dvs passar in i någon punkt i det kvadratformade diagrammet.
Ur Descartes säkra sanning kan man alltså, via separation, fråga A) vad är motsatsen till separation?, och B) rita ett rektangulärt storleks-tids-diagram. Dessa A) och B) saknar funktion hittills, men kommer kombineras så att de bygger upp varandra.
Where we are
In the previous pages I contrast Einstein (the inventor of spacetime and energymass – and thus energymasspacetime as a synonym of Reality). With Descartes’ certain truth of self and separation between observer and object and object/thought. Einstein symbolizes intertwinedness/[the oneness of Reality]/[energymasspacetime as a single word/concept] or [God if you have that vocabulary]. Separation is the opposite of that wordless energymasspacetime; the jews call it Yahwe but don’t say the word because observation is separation and separation isn’t in observerless intertwinedness oneness / [opposite of separation]. We are in the observers’ realm inevitably (there are two realms: one which we are in by being thought-bound describers. And the other realm is needless to try to set words to, but E=mc2 did it by joining energymass and spacetime (c is spacetime/speed).
I also, in addition to putting Einstein and Descartes as opposites (opposing realms – we are in one realm), the first paper states that there is an existential theory (cosisting of three ideas). The three ideas are like points on a PowerPoint:
– separation and intertwinedness (that same intertwinedness we can’t see by being observers)
–	energymass with spacetime (E=mc2 connects them together; energymass is all movement and body, spacetime is the space your body occupies and time is the 4th dimension).
–	an infinite sizerange.
That the sizescale is infinite is like a court case with three (two major) arguments for that the sizescale is infinite:
–	with our human brain, that brain can notice the fact that it cannot see Reality/[that of which all is part]/the opposite of separation. Then ask whether there is a maximum or minimum size in that (I propose) infinite sizerange? It doesn’t make sense to ask for size nor maximum range because they’d have to be separate (period). Separate from anything. Separation itself makes a “maximum size” impossible.
–	but it might be different in the universe itself, so we ask the same question: does separation exist by there being a maximum/minimum size in our known sizescale (which ranges from cosmology, through astronomy, down to anatomy, cellular biology and quantum physics at the smallest known.
–	a third proof for that the sizerange is infinite, now having gone through both the subjective and the objective proofs, is the least convincting truth: that you can’t put yourself in front of you. Since what you are observing is supposed to include everything in it, you can’t possibly be outside it observing it. Again we repeat that opposition/separation/”outsideness” is not in the unseeable Reality (defined as energymasspacetime)/[that of which all is part].
A pseudo-mneumonic for remembering this is: that of which all is part (Reality) cannot be observed (because obserservation is separation). It proves that there is more to Reality than a brain, a computer or any other object can represent. Not even what the brain does: uses less matter (the flesh of the brain) to represent something like a galaxy (much more mass). In a thought experiment we can let the smallest known particle or bit of space, represent the largest known or more. The “more” is important because we are allowed to represent anything, even infinitey minus 1 much. There is more to Reality than can be contemplated.
Since Descartes certain truth lets us draw in the separation that is inevitably there (by virtue of lacking that intertwinedness we spent so many synonyms on already). We can draw both a world as we see it, or we can abstractly draw a size-time-diagram (Cartesian coordinate system – look how far ahead of his time his two great ideas would unite) with infinity-symbols at all four corner of the rectangle (the size-time-diagram is a rectangle – something for universal scientific merchendize).
Size-time justification exists between any two arbitrarily chosen points in time, or sizes in the size-range. There’s a size-time-reason for anything and everything that happens. The size-time-diagram has infinitely many points available because there is more than we can ponder i.e. the size-time-diagram is infinite.
Since we touched on Descartes and Einstein being opposites (in their ideas of course), how does one prove that ones theory is correct? It connects back to itself – if you are well enough to make the associations. For example: the infinity of the abstract space gives a natural intuition that this existential theory (here the sizerange, but it is connected to the two other ideas which hold the rest of the theory, namely evolution and the brain, on its foundation). The foundation is three ideas: separation-intertwinedness-opposition, energymass-spacetime unity and the proven fact that the sizescale is infinite. It can be drawn using infinity symbols given our limited brain and limited diagram to draw the infinity symbols in. Drawing on Descartes and Einstein we can prove why there is a sizescale – and time is also infinite, the Big Bang regenerating using logic. The logic is the following (without time/spacing in between):
– our universe expands as black holes remove energymass from 3-dimensional space (the curvature of space is infinite). When no more mass is present in our 3-dimensional space – and mass is needed for Einstein’s E=mc2 not to be absurd.
–	Emptienss with its laws of nature (including geometrical ones applying to mass and E=mc2) would be absurd if mass is mentioned in its laws but would’ve “be observed (as a ritual)”, i.e. the universe must summon mass if there is no mass in order for E=mc2 to remain true.
–	this obviously, since there are empty small spaces in our universe, applies to when there is complete emptiness i.e. when all star-system have swiwelled into the supermassive black hole in the galaxy center. There is in other words a long time of no place to bear life in the history of the universe; life exists only in the beginning and the vast majority of timespans between Big Bangs have as their only event black holes swallowing lifeless spacerocks and stars. The fuel in stars that result in supernovae will be reborn into new stars over and over again, but once only iron and other lifeless mass remains, there will be no fuel for new stars. After that comes the black holes swallowing all that used-to-bear-life mostly iron mass. That might take a while longer than there was life in the universe – the universe is after all not geared for life but generates it for a rational purpose: the sizescale is infinite (and of energymass in spacetime).
How do I prove this is how the size-axis re-creates a Big Bang every now and then? For one, since its “spacetime” and we drew infinity-symbols on our abstract size-time-diagram in every corner of the rectangle. Time and space, though different axises on our diagram, are united thanks to Einstein (into spacetime).
All this is rather more beautiful and complicated than “God created earth in 6 days and rested on the 7th” – its a totally different kind of creation story. It answers the Big Question: why are we? We have a three-idea existential theory part of which is the infinity of the sizerange; and we know there is more than we can contemplate i.e. the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all its 4 corners.
To some readers it seems like I´m preaching to the choir, but think of the debate still going on with people claiming the earth is 6000 years ago. Isn’t an infinite sizescale a more convincing creation story? It assumes there is “intelligence” in the cosmos just as there is logos in our perception, but as a creation story: present them with my current work and even as they tend to argue against, they will have to admit that the earth is not 6000 years old. The whole God-debate boils down to whether God is exactly synonymous with Reality/energymasspacetime/[that of which all is part]. We can through rationaly find the phrase/idea [that of which all is part] as useful, and once we welcome it into our vocabulary, God must be part of  [that of which all is part].
That of which all is part also is called energymasspacetime and a size-time diagram is the minimal you need to understand why we are.
Those who believe in God must have never heard the phrase [that of which all is part], and that all we know about this Reality fits in a size-time-diagram. [That of which all is part] is also the synonym for energymasspacetime/Reality, which’s existence is supported by three ideas: separation-intertwinedness, energymass-spacetime, an infinite sizescale.
The debate is between sentences like “God created the universe” versus my complex abstract theory. [That of which all is part] having a God outside it; an infinite sizescale with infinite time with a God outside it. I prefer God being a synonym for Reality. That’s Einstein’s God.
That leaves the Adam and Eve-story untouched as of yet, but having a reproducing shape in some size range in an infinite sizerange…
Author
yonis
Posted on
24/10/2016
28/10/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Few pages (Var vi är – where we are; the existential theory)
Posts navigation
Page
1
Page
2
Next page
Search for:
Search
Recent Posts
From Certain Truth to Dinosaurs (with Maan and Marwan)
War and Boredom
2 Nobel Prizes
V 2-4
Existential theory (2)
Recent Comments
Archives
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
Categories
Dagbok
Old
The book + diagrams
Trashcan
Trey
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.org
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Proudly powered by WordPress

Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen – A world-unifying world-view
Skip to content
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
A world-unifying world-view
From Certain Truth to Dinosaurs (with Maan and Marwan)
Author
yonis
Posted on
05/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on From Certain Truth to Dinosaurs (with Maan and Marwan)
War and Boredom
War-and-Boredom
26
War and Boredom (did you get bored of this book and thus let the world-view-differences-based wars continue?)
War and Boredom
The title of this book refers to that it is hard to get through this book. The reason why this new science (that I present in this book) hasn’t been discovered until I did is because part 1 of this book gives a sense of meaninglessness toward the Universe and part 2 deals with evolution in a depressing way because the main trend is “power”.
Writing it gave me anxiety and reading it gives many people anxiety.
But the question is: does everyone agree on it? If they do, that changes the Israel-Palestine-conflict where the parties of God are vetoing
regarding the borders of
the
“holy land”; it changes religious extremism and the wars fought over it. Religion is the biggest cause for hatred
in the world, as Hitchens said. My book
is
a minimalist theory
that
encompasses all one needs to understand
Everything: existence (why there is size itself) and
evolution – even thoughts about the future of humanity/evolution.
Even though there comes a sense of meaninglessness from knowing the existential theory and a sense of depression from knowing evolution, there is
a sense of
honor in having the right world-view.
Most importantly, the religious wars - ISIS/Israel/etc. - can be demolished by a world-view which everyone agrees on. War only continues because it is boring to learn and teach the course I present in this book. Hence the book´s name: War and Boredom, or: how boredom (toward science) keeps the wars continuing.
Not only can this book end wars, but it can unify people so that they feel more friendliness toward each other – science is a language and speaking the same language makes it easier to make friends. Having the same associations between concepts (a scientific world-view) gives people a lot to agree on, they´ll “speak the same language”.
If anyhow you get too bored to study further, there are three parts to this book (1: the existential theory, 2: evolution, 3: the dawn of religion), and they’re written with different styles. You may jump to either part directly.
Lecture 1
Descartes
One of the aims of this course is to get EVERYONE to agree so that they have the same associations between scientific concepts.
There is no other proper way to accomplish this goal than by starting with certain truth, which was found by Descartes in the 1600s. He lived in a time where they believed in demons, Gods etc. so he postulated a thought experiment where he assumed an almighty demon was fooling him in everything he could be fooled in: what would remain as certain truth – what could he not be fooled in?
If he was being fooled, where would still be a “he” (or self) there to be fooled, meaning that the self certainly exists. A self is necessary for a self to be fooled.
Descartes had thus concluded his own existence.
Being fooled is thinking – thus thought exists. “There is thought” Descartes concluded as certain truth. The word “fooling” represents a thought-process.
Descartes found the starting-position for any inquiry about truth: we can know certainly that thinker and thought exists.
Distinction exists (a logical conclusion from the above)
Looking at what we´ve found as certain truth so far “from above” (meta), we can take the next logical step – adding a third factoid to our 2-statement (A and B above) starting position: that there is distinction (
between
thinker and thought). The fact that thinker and thought are two separate entities concluded to be certain truth
s
through two
different
logical pathway
s
lets us conclude that “distinction exists”
. There are what Chinese philosophy calls “the ten thousand things” (referring to the world) – there are at least two (three if we include “distinction” as th
e third thing) certain entities, and empirically we know there are “ten thousand things” (not taking the number 10 000 literally but just referring to multiplicity).
First universal diagram
We can draw the thinker and thought and distinction between them as two dots with a line between them on a piece of paper (fig. 1).
Now we have something all religions agree on
– we´ve drawn up ideas and associations between them. Everyone ought to have the same associations (explanatory thoughts) between the concepts we´ve looked at so far.
We have, if you will – in figure 1 – a universal diagram.
Reality
We have the capability to conglomerate many separate entities under the rubric of a single category. If we use this capability to collect the “ten thousand things” (distinct entities) we´ve found so far into a single thing, we ought to give that thing a word/name. Its definition can be “that of which all is
part” and “the opposite of separation/distinction”. I will use the word Reality to refer to this all-encompassing thing.
In lecture 2 I will present three proofs for that “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, but for now we can draw (adding to figure 1) a dot with a cross over it – the cross to symbolize that the dot itself is a false representation of Reality because we (the observer/self/thinker) should be part of that dot. See fig 2.
Thinking about what we´ve got so far
Thinking about what we´ve got so far (fig. 2) it’s a bundle of associations which make universal inter-religious (all religions agree on it) knowledge with both words and pictures.
In the next lecture I present why the line in fig 2 (see fig 3) represents the opposition/antagonism/disagreement/contraposition/divergence/variance between the two sides of the paper; between “thinker and thought” on one side of the paper and “Reality (that of which all is part; the opposite of separation)” on the other side of the paper.
Worth noting now is that the left side of the paper represents separation/distinction whilst the right side of the paper represents the opposite of separation/distinction – both are legitimate ideas: thinker and thought – and distinction – is certain truth based on Descartes and we all know which idea we refer to when talking about the all-encompassing [that of which all is part] Reality.
In the next lecture we will talk about why the line in fig. 3 makes it so that we can´t see Reality – I will present three proofs like in a crime case, and we will talk about what we can see if we can´t see Reality.
Making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far
1
See fig. 1 again: it´s our starting-point and the thinking that occurs in it happens in Descartes “realm of mind”; it is the mind´s realm (the left side of the paper) in which the thinking happens, and one thing we talk about is Reality on the right side of the paper in fig 3. Since the line in fig. 3 represents both the legitimacy of the ideas on both sides of the paper, and simultaneously the opposition between separation/distinction (on the left side of the paper) and [the opposite of separation/distinction] on the right side of the paper. That opposition is important and I will show its significance in lecture 2.
2
Starting from Descartes realm (of if you will: assuming that all we know is what we know for certain), we have the capability to state that there is a single Reality of which all is part – so even though we see separation we must grant that that separation (all entities) fits into a category we call Reality. There is a unifying whole even though the human mind (Descartes realm) is limited in its ways when it tries to contemplate Reality.
Not only is there the map-territory distinction (which will be presented as one out of three proofs in lecture 2), but there is also a more fundamental opposition between distinction and its opposite (there is a more fundamental opposition between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3). Not only are we stuck in the map-territory-distinction-realm but we also can conclude that no representation (regardless of the mind) is equal to Reality (on a more fundamental level than the map-territory-problem).
Representation is done in the brain using neurons and in a computer using electrons, but there is no reason why the most distant atom or quark couldn´t be proposed to be a symbol for [that of which all is part] – and even in that brainless scenario we will see in lecture 2 that “that of which all is part cannot be represented”. The map-territory-distinction is just proof/evidence number two in lecture 2 (for that we cannot see Reality and thus, since we do see/represent something, there must be more to Reality than can be represented i.e. the size-time-diagram (presented in lecture
2) is infinite along both axes.
Proof 3 in lecture 2 removes the brain from the equation and still proves that there is more to Reality than can be seen/represented/symbolized (using any means/any method – even without a brain), and since some representation is obviously (since we know that there are minds) possible, there must be more than can be represented/contemplated i.e. the size-axis is infinite and the time-axis is infinite in that two-axis diagram.
3
Both sides of the paper in fig. 3 are legitimate ideas. But still they are opposites (separation on one side and the opposite of separation on the other side). How can two derived-from-logic sides of the
paper be opposites but still both be legitimate?
Usually opposition – like between Democrats and Republicans – means that one is right and the other is wrong; they can´t both simultaneously be right: you can´t meaningfully vote for both parties at the same time.
The case is different between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3: both sides are right and they are opposites.
There is a single Reality and there is multiplicity in distinction.
What does this mean? That there is more to the size-time-diagram than anything could represent – any representation fails (you can think of some examples/suggestions for how to represent [that of which all is part]/[the opposite of separation]) – and thus the axes on the size-time-diagram are infinite. This is a hither to unpresented fact in science – it is new science: some of the best scientists ignorantly believe that the size-range is limited/finite.
4
We have quite a few associations and symbols in fig. 3 which must be agreed upon, and here I´m using the word “must” in the sense that “by the rules of logic X must be true”. Other civilizations throughout the infinitely many galaxies there are use the exact same ideas (but in a different language) and have the same associations between them (that there are infinitely many galaxies is derived from that the size-axis in the size-time-diagram is infinite). There is distinction as the third truth to be added to Descartes two fundamental truths (thinker and thought exist), and all that is opposed to (on the other side of the paper in fig. 3) to the all-encompassing Reality which is defined using at least two definitions: that of which all is part and the opposite of separation.
I´m tri-lingual but I write the same ideas and associate them in the same ways no matter which language I write in – its universal science beginning from certain truth. On other planets that have civilizations my writings in this book ought to match up quite near to the writings creating the same lecture series based on universal science that I´m creating
– “alien”/exo-planet
lecture series proceed, beginning from certain fact, through logical steps as I do.
5
[Thinker and thought] (certain truth) and thus distinction/separation are associated through negation/opposition to the right side of the paper in figure 3: Reality. The left side is not the right side just like separation is not its opposites. Both being legitimate ideas, though, connects them in the way that thinker and thought (and all other distinct entities) are in the category Reality.
Even though Reality and distinction are opposites, distinction dwells in (as a sub-entity within the category) Reality.
The associations between the left and right sides of the paper in figure 3 are both united through the notion “opposition” and through the notion that distinction is inherent in Reality (Reality being the opposite of distinction
because we have all-encompassing and its opposite: composite parts).
6
It is certainly true that all is part of a single Reality; but it is equally true that in every observation there is an observer and hence distinction (between thinker and thought). We see separate entities is as true as that the self that we are is not in front of us – but everything we see (thought/object) is in front of us.
That is evidence 1 in lecture 2 (not a proof, but a mere suggestion/evidence that [that of which all is part cannot be observed] and thus there is more to Reality than our concept of [infinitely
much].
All we know about Reality has two properties: a size and a time. Size and time are two axes on a diagram, and thus all we know fits into the size-time-diagram (every object or location in space has a size and time).
There is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram because all suggested representors for Reality fail
(for three reasons taken up in lecture 2).
7
All
bundles of associations in this chapter “making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far”
are written in order to create some universal brain structures (universal because science is the same everywhere (on all exo-planets), and their brains make the same associations too eventually). It´s not some random bundle of associations nor did I randomly present random ideas.
I assume the brain structure created by understanding this book is a replica of something derived from science; a replica of brain structures on the infinitely many other civilization-bearing planets. It´s a universal “ideology”, if you will.
Everyone has a possibility of sharing it in agreement – and future lectures will add a whole lot of complexity to it; agreement tends to build friendship so study is a way of bringing more peace to the world.
Once the full world-view is presented throughout this book, it´s a way of pacifying the world.
8
We have two brain-halves: one linguistic and one visual. So far we´ve both drawn pictorial representations and connected words – both brain-halves have been working. The connections across corpus collosum (which sits between the brain-halves and connects them) that connect a linguistic narrative/explanation to the pictorial representations are one day found in all humans thanks to science. Our brains are becoming more as science has a propensity to make them be.
This course itself, since it begins with certain truths and builds upon it logically, is a universal course (to the best of my ability).
The brain cells that constitute the negation (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 3) or opposition are not the same kind of cells (they are inhibitory neurons) that connect thinker with though as both being certain truths (but the thinker is not the thought and thus has inhibitory cells making that brain-structure work too
(what you are is not in front of you;
what you are is not visible).
Since both Reality and [what you are]/self/observer/thinker are invisible the brain might erroneously and spontaneously try to associate them, so a brain-structure is needed to inhibit that association (and replace it with a more complex explanation). That spontaneous but erroneous association is something all thinking animals throughout the universe evolved to do, and the inhibition of it through culture/civilizing/science is universally available within complex enough civilizations throughout the universe.
As you can see the brain structures responsible for doing this thing are quite complex, but also universal and thus accessible to all humans, and predictably will someday be in all humans (fostering agreement, thus friendship, thus peace).
Lecture 2
Perceive, apprehend, notice are synonyms for our representing ability, but I will use the word “see” or “observe” to refer to all of these. The goal of this lecture is to prove the statement “that of which
all is part cannot be observed”, Reality being defined as “that of which all is part”. In other words: we cannot see Reality, and thus there is more to Reality than even can be contemplated (i.e. infinitely much).
I will build this lecture like a criminal court case: I will present three proofs for that we cannot see Reality i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated i.e. (since we can contemplate anything (right or wrong)) Reality is infinite.
Since anything/everything we know about Reality has some size and time, it fits into a size-time-diagram. See fig. 4.
In fig. 4 size is represented along the vertical axis and time along the horizontal axis. The objects humans see in everyday life (from the horizon to a single cell as one “pixel” in our visual field) are marked in “the human range”.
See fig 5.
In fig. 5 I´ve drawn the same diagram as in fig. 4 but this time with infinity-symbols in each corner of the squareical size-time-diagram. Two infinite axes become a square.
Proof number 3 in our “court case” for proving that the size-time-diagram (Reality) is infinite has us imagine the unobservable separatenessless Reality and ask whether there is a maximum or minimum size to/in it (a maximum/minimum being separateness while we are talking about the opposite of separation). This is again to confirm that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes.
The line we drew in fig. 4 was for separating the two sides of the paper; opposing “thinker and thought” (distinction) with its opposite: one all-encompassing non-distinction Reality. That opposition-line is what this lecture is about since it proves that the two sides of the paper are separate/opposing realms and we are stuck in one realm as long as we are observers (because observation is separation/distinction (thinker and thought)).
Proving that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes is new science because it poses the question: what happened before the Big Bang (14 billion years ago), and it presents one pillar of our existential theory: that each size is the reason for each next and previous size, and the size axis is infinite, meaning the “beginning” of the relationship between sizes keeps retreating into infinity the more we contemplate the range of the size axis.
When I presented fig. 4 for the first time I drew a cross over the dot symbolizing Reality for the plain reason that we (as observers) should be part of that dot, and by the very nature of us being separate (and the dot representing the opposite of separation) we should draw a cross over it symbolizing that we cannot see it.
The main proof though is that even if all observers were dead there´d still be, inherent and fundamental in nature, the opposition between distinction and distinction´s opposite (the two sides of the paper in fig. 4). The line is an opposition-line and it is more fundamental than being dependent on humans/observers – it refers to all representation whether it’s using/including humans or not. I am, in other words, not talking about the map-territory distinction (which symbolizes that humans have mental maps and not the real world per se; like Kant said: we have “the thing” and not “the thing itself”). Proof 2 – the opposition-line between the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 – is not subjective: it is true that we live with the map-territory-distinction but even if I died there´d still be separate things (chairs separate from cups), that kind of separation is not dependent on me/observers. Simultaneously the flipside of the coin (the other side of the paper in fig. 4) is true too: all is one single Reality (the opposite of separation). Proof 2, in other words, should not be interpreted as signifying the map-territory distinction (human subjectivity) but instead a fundamental opposition in the universe.
If we do not see Reality, then what do we see? Everything we see fits into the size-time-diagram, and since the opposition-line in fig. 4 shows that there is a fundamental rule that states, in 3 different proofs, that Reality is infinite / there is more than can even be contemplated / there is more than even non-subjective representation can represent.
Proof number 1 is really weaker than a “proof” – it´s more like evidence. It wouldn´t hold up in a court but it is a way of stating what the other proofs too point towards. Proof 1 is what we saw when presenting figure 4: any dot representing Reality is an incorrect representation because the observer should be part of the object – the thinker should be part of the thought. It denies Cartesian
separation and thus is untrue, meaning that anything we draw on the right side of the paper in fig. 4 is incorrect.
We can contemplate anything: we can speculate about what´s smaller than quantum physics, or even what´s smaller than that, etc. into infinity. We are probably wrong, but any contemplation/representation counts as a contemplation – and since we know that, whether right or wrong as our contemplations may be, there is more to Reality than can be contemplated, it follows that there must be infinitely much to Reality. Since all we know about Reality fits into a size-time-diagram, the minimalist approach is to state that it´s the size-time-diagram that is infinite.
This warrants two new words: the knowable/known size-range and the infinite size-range. The knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range. Since Einstein unified space (size) and time, one cannot be infinite without the other one being the same. Science today doesn´t know whether there was a “before” to the Big Bang or not (whether time was created at the Big Bang), but now we know that the Big Bang is just an event on an infinite time axis. In a future lecture we will talk about how/why the Big Bang recreates (happens over and over).
We talked about universal diagrams (and universal brain-structures) in lecture 1. The size-time-diagram is one major universal diagram. A lot of detail can be added to it because all fields of science fit into it. The infinity-symbols on each axis of the squareical diagram are drawn, based on science, on exo-planets with advanced enough civilizations.
This lecture is about proving that [that of which all is part] (the opposite of separation) i.e. Reality cannot be observed/represented, and that this fact is true irrespective of whether we are observers or dead, and applying this to the size-time-diagram (which gets its infinity-symbols into the squareical diagram).
Proof number 2 (the main proof) is the oppositional approach between Reality and distinction, and it is not subjective because Reality and Reality´s opposite exist even if we were dead. Proof number 3 is about imagining (even though no imagination is it) Reality as a big gray (because energymass is white and spacetime is black) solid, in which we know no observer should be (because observation is separation) – does it have separation i.e. a biggest and a smallest size? No, because such distinctions are not in the opposite of distinction (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 4).
I´ve mentioned universal associations in the brain / exo-planet science, so talking about the size-time-diagram we can add more universal notions to it: why did I draw upwards on the size axis as larger and downward as smaller? Why is the time-axis horizontally drawn instead of vertically? The diagram works even if we would define the vertical axis as time and the horizontal axis as size – so why do we draw size vertically and time horizontally? Is it universal i.e. on other planets or just a human convention like writing from left to right in English-speaking countries and right to left in Arabic-speaking countries?
Evolution has it so that during the history of science telescopes look upward and microscopes look downward. This would be the case on other planets too: they turn their heads upward to see the large and downward (onto a table) to see the small; the opposite can´t be true on any planet. Thus
we get the size axis´ standard (of upward being larger) from evolution / the history of science. I use the word “standard” because it comes from evolution rather than being more fundamentally hard-wired into the universe such as the fact that the size-time-diagram is a square with infinity symbols. That the size-time-diagram is a square is not a standard – it is something stronger than that. The fact that we represent time on the vertical axis (and upward as larger) comes from a weaker source: tradition (even though that same tradition is true on all planets; evolution, in this regard, happens the same on all planets that end up with civilizations).
We thus have added standards or weak conventions (derived from history) in addition to having strong diagrams like the size-time-diagram being a square. The distinction between the two is made based on science and is thus made on exo-planets.
Scientists are looking for exo-planets that bear civilizations. If the size-range is infinite – as we´ve proven that it is – then each particular size (like the human range in fig. 5) is infinite too; if the largest is infinitely large then there is, considering the size of a human, an infinite distance in any direction that that human could find itself in. This makes civilizations on other planets a must, not an assumption. The known/knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range, and within the known size-range there is a range in which evolution occurs (between the smallest cells and the biggest organisms), and since we´ve proven that there are infinitely many objects within/of that size-range, then there must be infinitely many locations in which evolution occurs.
In the next lecture we will bind together the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 (distinction and distinction´s opposite; “thinker and thought” opposing Reality) with E=mc
2
(energymasspacetime) and with the infinity of the size-time axes, into a single existential theory which is a rival to “God created earth in 6 days…” The existential theory is a minimalist account for why there is a sizescale in the first place, and why there is something (energymass) rather than nothing (spacetime). It reminds me of this passage: “HITCHENS: In other words, as the great physicist Laplace said when he demonstrated his working model (his orrery, as it’s called) of the solar system to the emperor and Napoleon said, “Well I see there’s no God in this system,” and Laplace said, “Well, Your Majesty, it works without that assumption.””
In this chapter I´ve presented three proofs for that the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in it i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated; we do represent something but however we choose to represent (even representations that can be proposed as thought-experiments if we were dead) we do not represent Reality i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality. Are there any counter-arguments saying that the size-time-diagram is finite? I built this lecture like a court case and I´d like to hear the opposing side. There are no arguments that oppose what I´ve proven so far.
Lecture 3
E=mc
2
E=mc
2
as an equation is only used in relativistic scenarios such as very high speed or very high energy, but since speed is a continuum the equation is true at slower speeds. There is a difference between the equation being applicable (being needed while solving equations) and it being true; it is always true everywhere but it is not needed for equations except in special scenarios.
An example of the equation being true everywhere and always is this: nuclear power-plants turn mass (kilograms) into energy (joule), so that if you input 1 kg of uranium-mass you get out 99.9999 kg of waste products – some of the mass turned into energy which lights our light-bulbs. The atoms that lost some weight (that weight was converted into energy) are atoms just like other kinds of atoms, for example in autumn leaves. If you´d drop leaves into the core of the sun, the sun´s nuclear furnace would turn mass in the leaves into energy (light). Hence all objects are subject to the E=mc
2
-rule, which states that energy (E) equals mass (m). This warrants the word energymass because they are no longer two distinct things – they are but different manifestations of the same thing. In the brain energymass should be a single idea whilst the concepts “energy and mass” refers to two different forms of a single idea.
Verbs and adjectives tend to refer to energy (shining, running, etc.) while nouns refer to mass (body, tree, etc.) E=mc
2
states that the two (verbs/adjectives and nouns) are together in a single equation. Although only applicable in relativistic scenarios (the role of relativism becomes close to zero in everyday human events, except that our light-bulbs shine because mass turns into energy and the sun can makes leaves into light), E=mc
2
is in a “philosophical” sense true everywhere and always just like Pythagoras’s theorem about triangles remains “philosophically true” even where there are no physical triangles. You wouldn´t say 1=1 is not true in empty space just because there are no objects there to count as “1”.
In addition to energymass being a single concept (and not two distinct ones), spacetime gets added into the mix by the c
2
-part of the equation. c is the speed of light (km/h) and thus a distance (space) over time – spacetime! Energymass (E=m) and spacetime (c
2
) should in the brain be represented by a single idea which we can call energymasspacetime. This harkens back to the previous lectures about Reality, which is a synonym for energymasspacetime. Einstein invented the equation E=mc
2
and thus unified in it energymass with spacetime – and synonyms for energymass are “existence” or “1” while synonyms for spacetime are “non-existence”, “emptiness”, “nothing” and “zero”. There is no more to be considered regarding Reality than energymasspacetime; energymasspacetime involves everything (energymass) and nothing (spacetime) so there is nothing more to be considered/added to Reality – Reality is energymasspacetime; everything is included into Reality once we have defined Reality as energymasspacetime.
The Existential Theory
Each culture seems to have a creation myth (such as genesis) – the creation of the cosmos/world/Reality is something humans have invented hypotheses for during millennia. The stories answer the question “why are we here?”
The true answer is unintuitive. First of all: why is there any particular size? What justifies, say, the size of a molecule? The answer is: the smaller and the larger (the rest of the size-range). Atoms justify a molecule and a molecule exhibits a place for atoms to live in: justifies atoms. Humans need an earth to dwell on (the earth is larger) and humans are made of cells (cells are smaller). Each size bears a relationship upon each other size – the smaller justify the larger and the larger justify the smaller. Since the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all four corners of the square (because of the proof where we had two sides of a paper), the size-range is infinite i.e. the pattern of justification between/amongst sizes continues into the infinitely large and infinitely small. What the ancients called “the first cause” keeps retreating into infinity size-wise the more we contemplate it. The size-range is like a fractal: you can keep zooming in or out infinitely much, and the question “why is there this particular object that I see” has its answer in the relationship between all the sizes: justification. Infinite justification is the reason why there is a size-range at all. But there is more that is needed for a full-fledged existential theory: two more factors play their roles.
Spacetime is emptier than we can imagine/represent it. We (and all representeurs) are energymass and thus are the opposite of spacetime. We could let a piece of empty space represent spacetime, but as soon as we use energymass (such as our brains) to do so, we´ve lost the truly empty nature of spacetime: it is unimaginably empty. Any bundle of neurons, no matter how we wire it, is still the opposite of what they want to represent when they want to present us with spacetime. It is therefore useful to have two concepts for spacetime: (1) our simplest intuition of spacetime and (2) additional defining language explaining that spacetime is emptier than (1). This is how exoplanet civilizations would wire their brains regarding the concept “spacetime” too, just because it’s the most accurate science they can manage.
Just like energy and mass are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon, energymass and spacetime are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon. What does it mean for spacetime to be bundled together with (intertwined with) energymass? Everything exists as/in/because of nothing; 1 exists in 0; energymass and spacetime are together in the E=mc
2
-equation. Where could energymass/existence exist? In nothingness. Just like sizes justify one another, spacetime justifies energymass.
The last question that remains, after we have justification between sizes in an infinite size-range, and that all points in the size-time-diagram are made of energymasspacetime (and energymass is justified by it being in spacetime), is the objective fact that there both is a single Reality (the right side of the paper) and there´s its opposite: distinction (between, say, thinker and thought).
The existential theory builds on three “pillars”/fundamental ideas:
An infinite sizescale,
Energymasspacetime as in the equation E=mc
2
Distinction between distinction itself and distinction´s opposite (see fig. 1, 2, 3):
Between distinction (the left side of the paper, our 2 certain truths: I exist and there is thought) and Reality (the opposite of distinction; one Reality (not plural)) there is a line that demarcates distinction/opposition.
Putting it all into one phrase we might say: “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime with opposition between distinction and Oneness”. At its core it´s three ideas (infinite size-time-diagram, energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
), separation and intertwinedness (the two sides of the paper)). On exoplanets they would state their reason for their own existence using these three ideas too, because taken together they explain all that needs to be explained: first thing that comes to mind is that in the stated existential theory there must be a reproducing shape (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape; a DNA-strand) somewhere. If the size-time-diagram has
infinity symbols in all three corners, then evolution ought to occur somewhere (and be made of energymass in spacetime, while being separate/distinct in a single intertwined Reality).
Most creation-myths have a quite simple (one-pillared) and mundane story: for example genesis just states that God created Reality (that of which all is part) in 6 days and rested on the 7
th
. The scientific rival to all such creation stories is a three-pillared theory – we can´t make it any simpler (we can´t make it one-pillared) and the same would be the case on exoplanets: they too can only break it down to three interconnected ideas/pillars/fundaments, so in thinking this way we share a common intellectual history with exoplanet civilizations advanced enough to figure out this existential theory.
On a test on this subject a question might be: “what are the three pillars of the existential theory?” – the question can´t be “what is the most important pillar in the existential theory?” All pillars are equally important but constitute as distinct ideas as E=mc
2
is from infinite size, or the separation-intertwinedness-opposition (fig. 3).
This three-pillared creation story – the sum of these three chapters – is built upon logic: it includes certain truths like “I think and I exist” (distinction/separation), its opposite (Reality for which we have three proofs for that it can´t be observed/seen/contemplated i.e. the size-time-diagram is infinite), E=mc
2
which unifies nothing/spacetime with existence/energymass, and the relationship between any two sizes (justification along the infinite size-range). Every one of these ideas relates very closely to Descartes´ certain truth, meaning we can be sure of the ideas themselves – and they together build up a minimalist existential theory which needs no further logic to explain everything there is.
Having an infinite size-range has a predictive quality to it too – it makes a prediction: there ought to be evolution (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar mass) somewhere in the diversity we see throughout even the known size-range.
Though as non-intuitive as the 3-pillar existential theory may be to our evolved brains who want a single conclusion, exoplanet civilizations have the same limits and biases as us: they too are stuck with three pillars in a single theory to make the theory explainable. Science is creating universal (exoplanet) neural pathways in our brains. We should embrace the fact that by being non-intuitive but true, this science wires our brain based on science and thus universally. It is the way (the wiring) that all planets are headed to if they´re into science. It´s a universal world-view. We´re thinking like aliens.
In current scientific debates the religious will argue that faith (in a dogma) is needed to (what they call) “understand” the existence of the universe. If confronted with my theory (these lectures) they´d have to agree that logic makes their God unnecessary as a pillar of creation. In the best case scenario God is simply a synonym for Reality (because Reality is “that of which all is part” and thus God ought to be part of it too, and all we know about Reality is that it is energymass in spacetime and separation in intertwinedness).
Having an explanation – the negative side of it is it being three-pillared and unintuitive, the positive side of it being that it accounts for all of Reality and predicts evolution – further justifies the saying “a God of the gaps” (meaning the more we understand the less we need God). Now all that remains to be understood – again in an unintuitive but identical to exoplanets -way – is how, on an infinite time-
line, the Big Bang (denseness) recreates and fades away into sparseness (black holes removing energymass and dark energy creating more space until no galaxies are anymore visible).
Lecture 4
The beginning of the Big Bang
I have a hard time imagining how the universe can reach complete emptiness, but it wouldn´t be the first time the universe´s nature surpasses human intuition. In the history of science stars were observed to not move relative to one another on the night sky, and this was argued to prove that the size of the universe was much smaller than the now known size – it was argued that the universe would be “unreasonably big” if the stars didn´t seem to move relative to one another as the earth moved because they were so far away.
If only enough time is needed for the universe to become empty, then we get the starting scenario which is most reasonable: we start with emptiness (spacetime). Again, spacetime is emptier than our concept for it because we (and our concepts) are made of energymass.
If you move your hand one meter (from position 1 to position 2), the laws of nature that make your hand make sense were already in place in the space of position 2 before you moved your hand there. It´s not like the universe/spacetime was absurd in location 2 and only started to make sense regarding hands when you moved your hand there. We do not impact the laws of nature in such ways; instead the laws of nature are simultaneously and equally true at all locations and all times. In other words: Pythagoras’s theorem is true even in locations where there are no objects whatsoever, but the theorem is only applicable (to be applied) to triangles. In empty space there are no objects and thus no triangles, but Pythagoras´s theorem is true there anyhow – it does not suddenly become true (switch from being untrue to true) when a triangle is imagined or physically moved there. This applies to E=mc
2
too, which is just as much of a law of nature as Pythagoras´s theorem. E=mc
2
is true everywhere and always, though humans only apply (use) the equation in certain scenarios. Where triangles can be (in spacetime) there is also E=mc
2
. Laws of nature are fundamental and inherent in spacetime and do not come about depending on events (though our application/use of any particular equation is dependent on which event we´re analyzing).
There is distinction between the practical use of equations (to solve problems or understand a phenomenon) and the core nature of spacetime having laws of nature in it. Spacetime is a no-nonsense spacetime – we live in a rational (laws of nature-abiding) universe.
One law being E=mc
2
and another one being “if it is said it must exist” (meaning energymass can´t be mentioned in the laws of nature of spacetime without energymass existing), we get spacetime to summon energymass if the starting-point was complete emptiness. “If energymass is mentioned it must be summoned” (it is mentioned in E=mc
2
) is true because it would be a nonsense universe if it “talks” about energymass without there being any – just infinite space for eternity with laws of nature regarding energymass, but never any energymass appearing/being present. It would be a
nonsense universe if energymass it mentioned but never exists. It would be akin to the universe telling lies (having all these rules like E=mc
2
but never applying them to anything), or the universe babbling gibberish (having inapplicable laws of nature).
Thus, E=mc
2
being a core property of spacetime itself and the “no gibberish”-rule applying, energymass must logically be summoned – but how and where? Extremely dense i.e. everywhere, in the smallest spaces, simultaneously. Why? Our starting-point is spacetime, which needs no prior justification because it is the opposite of existence: it doesn´t exist – it is emptier than our neurons make it out to be. In it Einstein´s theory of relativity is true, meaning that there is no center point (or in other words: all points are the center) so there is no center to the Big Bang. Another way of seeing it is that as soon as there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification), E=mc
2
became true in all locations (in the smallest spaces) simultaneously – no point in space was before another in having E=mc
2
be true in it. Spacetime having E=mc
2
as a core property has E=mc
2
be true everywhere simultaneously; once we have the launching-condition of empty spacetime, through E=mc
2
, energymass is summoned everywhere simultaneously.
This “everywhere” is all things within an event horizon, meaning that things moving away faster than the speed of light (due to dark energy/accelerating cosmic expansion) are not within our event horizon: they are not part of what can be reasonably called “our 3-dimensional space” (from our location). Things are not part of our universe once their speed hits faster than the speed of light – and many locations, within the boundaries of their respective event horizons, will one day have all energymass moving away from them at speeds faster than the speed of light (this is just the observed fact of accelerating cosmic expansion). Such a finite space with no energymass within its event horizon (all energymass moving away faster than the speed of light) would constitute “completely empty space” i.e. our starting-point for the Big Bang (energymass being summoned due to E=mc
2
).
Consider an infinite size-range - it is made of energymasspacetime: if we draw it as the Y-axis on a diagram, there can´t be a region/length in it (such as the knowable size-range) which is completely empty forever. See fig. 6.
Because of the rules E=mc
2
and “if it is mentioned it must be summoned”/”no-nonsense universe” are true throughout the infinite size-range, there can´t be a region with just spacetime (with its laws of nature) because the laws of spacetime mention energymass; spacetime is inherently tied to and intertwined with energymass – existence and non-existence go together (at all sizes). There would be no logical breaking-point (a particular size) where energymasspacetime transitions into being just spacetime for a range of sizes and then transitions back into energymasspacetime; there is no logical breaking-point where the implications of E=mc
2
(the implication being: energymass and spacetime are in the same equation) stop to be true. The transition seen in fig. 6 is impossible (there is no “empty region”). Having an empty region would be akin to zooming into the decimals of pi and seeing no numbers for a specific array of decimals: 3.14159ÄÄÄÄ265359... The Ä´s can´t be there: it´s a continuous sequence of decimal numbers. There is no break/”empty region” in the continuous decimals of pi just as there is no region of the size-range that can be empty of energymass.
In this chapter I´ve written something akin to “
first
there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification unless you consider that the size-axis of the size-time-diagram is infinite),
then
there was E=mc
2
,
then
there was energymass summoned into the smallest spaces available (available = considered to be within an event horizon and empty)”. This harkens back to previous lectures´ talk about “alien logic” (how exoplanets think). To have it make sense to our brains we use the time-distinctions “first, then and then” but the real distinction is not in time but in steps in a sequence of logic. In other words all the mentioned steps happened simultaneously to start the Big Bang: E=mc
2
was true as soon as there was spacetime, and as soon as there was that, energymass appeared as not to make the universe absurd (by it talking gibberish or it having an empty region like in fig. 6).
The end of the Big Bang
Telescopes observe that “space is being born” i.e. that the distances between clumps of energymass (galaxies) are getting larger, and at an accelerating pace too. Not only does the Hubble law state that an object a
million light
-
years
away would be receding from us at 21 km/sec and at double the distance twice the speed, but the law states that that speed (for example 21 km/sec a million light years away) is increasing. This is called accelerating cosmic expansion. It means that from our galaxy, when/if we look into the sky trillions of years in the future, we´d see no trace of any other galaxy let alone the cosmic microwave background (because their speeds have passed the speed of light and thus went beyond the event horizon). Once that object a million light years away from us which today is racing away at 21 km/sec reaches 299792 km/sec (the speed of light), it will pass from being within our event horizon to being outside our sphere of events.
This empties our universe or as Hitchens put it: “nothingness is coming”. Once that nothingness comes we have our starting point where we run through the logic of E=mc
2
–> “if it is mentioned it must exist/be summoned” (in order for the universe not to talk gibberish or the infinite size-range not to have a break in it) –> energymass begins as dense (because of relativity and because E=mc
2
is true everywhere simultaneously/equally).
We observe that nothingness (within event horizons) is coming, and beginning from nothingness there is unintuitive logic that has a predictive quality to it: the Big Bang should start dense. This theory works well with lecture 2´s proofs for that “there is more to Reality than can be represented”
(the size-time-diagram is infinite) because size is essentially space, and space and time are intertwined into a single spacetime – hence: if size/space is infinite then time must be infinite too. In other words we have reoccurring Big Bangs interspersed along the time-axis of our size-time-diagram. As soon as a region bound by an event horizon becomes empty we have the universe´s no-nonsense-laws kicking in and E=mc
2
summons energymass (in the smallest sizes that are empty equally/simultaneously).
The sequence of consecutive Big Bangs´ beginnings (emptiness leading to energymass being summoned) and ends (accelerating cosmic expansion speeding things past a point´s event horizon and emptiness being summoned) are as infinite as the time-axis proved to be based on lecture 2´s proofs. Proving (in lecture 2) that spacetime is infinite fits perfectly with the reoccurring Big Bangs (when somethingness becomes emptiness and then emptiness summons somethingness).
There will in other words, between the beginning of a Big Bang and the end of that same Big Bang, be life within the conscious/human size-range (the different locations of that size already being infinitely many, see fig. 4).
Each size along the size-axis is defined as “3-dimensional infinite space” meaning there is infinitely much life with access to universal science (i.e. some version of this lecture-series), and within our region (bound by an event horizon) there is life between the beginning and end of Big Bangs. In addition I have hard to believe that a reproducing shape (and thus evolution) only occurs in only
one
size-range (the, for humans, knowable size-range) in an infinite size-range: there ought to be many sub-size-ranges as part of the infinite size-range where evolution occurs and can reach scientific knowledge. All life mentioned above, if they reach scientific understanding, would concur on the existential theory presented in these lectures (especially lecture 3 – the three pillars/foundations/ideas which together become a minimalist theory for why there is the infinite size-range of energymasspacetime in the first place).
This is not only exoplanet science – it is science between Big Bangs and it is science in regions of the size-axis far away (in size) from our knowable size-range. See fig. 7.
Summary
First we looked at Descartes’ ”thought exists” and ”the self exists”, claimed that it was two valid statements and pointed out the distinction between them. On the other side of the paper we wanted to represent anti-distinction (the opposite of distinction) defined as “that of which all is part” (Reality), and realized that since thinker/thought is stuck on the left side of the paper we can’t represent Reality. This is not only Kant’s “the thing is not the thing itself (the mental map is not the real territory)” but more importantly whatever cannot be taken to represent “that of which all is part” i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality.
All we know about Reality (atoms, humans, galaxies) fit into a size-time-diagram (every object has a size and a time), so the minimalist approach combining the above paragraph with this one is to use the first paragraph to prove that the size-time diagram has infinite
axes. This in turn leads to an existential theory which can be summed up as “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime” – and it has a predictive quality to it: somewhere in such an existence there would be a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape and thus we get reproduction/evolution.
So far we’ve looked at the theory of why size itself exists, why there is something rather than nothing – an existential theory beginning from certain truth and logically building its way up all the way to predicting evolution.
Part 2: Evolution
My explanation of evolution focuses on how important disease and bullying (power) was for evolution.
Power
means that
fish
were
fighting fish breeding more agressive fish = dinosaurs, then wolfpacks with an alpha male.
But even before and after those eras in evolution the rule of power was in play.
In part one we had an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime (including the intertwinedness-separation-opposition and the time-axis with repeating Big Bangs perpendicular to the size-axis) that predicts a reproducing shape i.e. a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape: reproduction in an infinite size-range.
This infinite size-range predicts reproduction.
Part one was about why there is a sizescale of energymasspacetime: the answers are that the sizescale is infinite and that energymass is in spacetime. It predicts that there should be a reproducing shape: say that it is a triangle which gathers surrounding lines into a similar triangle – then it has reproduced itself. The products of this reproduction obey three rules: directly when there was reproduction three rules came into play, I´ve listed them below as 1, 2, 3 but they are not in order (they came simultaneously):
1:
There is life and death: those who survive survive and those who die are not in the game anymore. “The surviving survive”. It´s so simple – we see it in everyday life today. But everything in evolution will come back to these three rules so we might as well do the banal and bring them up.
So directly when there was a reproducing shape - so in our part of the size-range a DNA-strand which split in the middle and became two DNA-strands – the copy either survived or died.
2: The second rule is that the number of offspring has significance. That is to say: if you get one child or five children or ten children, there is a difference between those numbers – and in evolution it´s a benefit to have more children. One can also have zero children, and that is approximately like being dead.
Some would say that evolution´s meaning (the main task of life) is to make more offspring – that it´s the scientific meaning of life – Nature´s meaning: to reproduce. But I would answer that evolution makes more offspring (that´s reproduction) and making more offspring gives evolutionary benefits, but Nature itself does not care – it does not care about whether we nuke ourselves or not. There is no God that looks upon us and cares. Even reproduction becomes meaningless in the larger perspective. But in evolution it has significance whether one has zero offspring or ten offspring.
Rule number two (number of offspring matters) just as simple as rule number 1 (that there is life and death; that some live and some die).
The third rule that appered... – well all three rules appeared simultaneously directly when there was reproduction in this sizerange. The third rule is that:
3: There is mutation in every generation-shift. Things change. It doesn’t make perfect copies. Your child (if you have one) is not an exact copy of yourself or your wife – it’s a mutation; a change.
These three rules – 1: that there is life and death, the surviving survive. 2: That there are different nuances in the number of offspring. 3: That there is mutation in every generation-shift – these three rules came into play directly when the first reproduction occurred. We will return to these three rules over and over again; they are like laws of nature that like God says shall work on life directly
when the first life reproduces itself. These laws of nature didn’t exist before the first life reproduced itself – they were not active then. They became active directly when there was reproduction.
These are abstract laws that we will manufacture, then we have the physical reality of that in a puddle of water a strand of DNA – a cell – made copies/offspring. Then viruses came into the game and injected its own DNA into the ordinary cells, that is to say: hijacked their reproductive system to create virus-offspring. If this would´ve continued the ocean would´ve been filled with only viruses, so there has to be some next step which made it so that our type of life survived. But the viruses added a 4
th
law (one of these abstract laws)
and that is: if you can hijack someone else’s reproductive system to create your own offspring; if you can inject your DNA into somebody else´s cell so that it creates viruses – I call this “power”. We will return to this word when we for example look at dinosaurs (they became bigger because the men killed each other to get the women whom make offspring). This power-principle was one that came after the three first ones.
The first cells reproduced and we had these three rules, then viruses came and injected their DNA and used “power” to produce more viruses. Then we get an immune-system which kills viruses i.e. protects the original organism´s reproductive system from being hijacked by viruses. So the immune-system evolved to take back the reproductive principle (2: the number of offspring matters); for the fact that one should retain the reproductive capability for oneself – so that no virus can take it over. So power has a lot to do with the number of offspring – principle 4 has a lot to do with principle 2.
We have multicellular organisms with immune-systems, we have viruses around them – and it´s an arms-race between that the viruses mutate to overcome the immune-system and the immune-system mutates to overcome the virus. Thus we have an evolutionary pressure on mutating the immune-system as much as possible as fast as possible (because the viruses mutate very quickly), and the best way to do that is to combine genes from two different organisms: a man and a woman. So sex has its beginning in viruses.
If this doesn´t make you feel comfortable contemplate this: the truth outweighs positive-thinking. But does one want to remove whatever spreads joy among people? Those who want to defeat the religious violence in the world (I think religion is the biggest unnecessary cause of hatred in the world) – one cannot defeat that without defeating all religiousness simultaneously. To want to defeat one part of religion but not the rest of it is like voting for the Republicans and Democrats simultaneously – it´s just unreal. Sadly one must remove the good to remove the evil. Meditation still remains and one can get a kind of anxietylessness from some thoughts still but in the big picture there are no reasons that support them anymore – it´s just a brain-trick that one does.
In our evolutionary story we had an immune-system which mutates, wants more mutations – we get two genders. Then men begin to war with each other (because, metaphorically speaking, women can produce offspring once a year while men can produce it every day – we have an imbalance; asymmetry). Why is it always men that start wars? It began with the first fish – we had multicellular life in our story so far, so they became a bit bigger, could swim around – we get fish: it´s easier to find food then and easier to move around. Directly when there were two genders there was one fish which evolved to use its teeth for killing other male fish. The first aggressor of course got the most offspring because there were no other men around. That´s why men go to war: they can produce offspring with so many women while a woman has no benefit from having 1000 men.
There´s a
caveat to
this once we get to caveman tribes/wolf-packs where a woman secretly wants many men to provide resources to her child, but at least in the era between fish and dinosaurs the picture was simply based on asymmetric reproductive rates.
So then the male fish grow more aggressive, the child who is the biggest and has the sharpest teeth kills the other male fish, has the most offspring; and in the next generation, again: the child with the most aggression and biggest muscles gets the most offspring – that´s how we get to dinosaurs and T-rex. We had males competing/fighting with each other and that´s why T-rex is so large. That is, again, the power-principle: just like viruses took over the reproductive system from the first cells, T-rex takes away the reproductive system from his rivals by killing them. So this principle number 4 (power) lives on – it has caused/causes so much: it causes the first viruses, it causes T-rex, that fish become aggressive, that we get two genders (by viruses getting power – so we wanted to counter that power by immune-systems i.e. two genders).
These dinosaurs then, just like humans don´t seem to have (sarcasm), any concept of preserving natural resources – so they would´ve eaten up all their trees and not had any food left. But on our planet it seems to have been a meteor-strike which wiped them out, but on exoplanets i.e. overall in this evolutionary series of evolutionary pressures causing various principles (first the three first principles, then the 4
th
principle, immune-systems, two-genderedness, bigger
fish, fights between the fish, dinosaurs). The dinosaurs ate their natural resources and all large life dies - so only small rat-like/squirrel-like life-forms live on.
The trees grow back up – we get monkeys.
Groups tend to, in a fight – if it´s a group against an individual (one against many) – the group tends to win. So we monkeys form groups, fighting together for food against individualists. The individualists lost.
So we got this - or had it from the get-go (just like with the first aggressors) – instinct that makes us want to be highest in the hierarchy and thereby get all the women. Power again. But this time it´s a kind of human power – we saw power when viruses took over the reproductive systems, we saw power when dinosaurs outcompeted their rivals (the men), we see power when a bully goes to the top of the hierarchy, pushes down the other men – and the women want the bully´s resources (he has the most stuff) so they´re attracted to him, so he gets the most offspring – out of his offspring the one that is best at getting power the one that gets most offspring.
The reason for why the brain grew so fast during the past 100 000 years was because we used the brain to plan for how to climb upward in the hierarchy. The reproductive benefits coming from being high-status in the hierarchy were so great comparing to being low-status that this put great selection-pressure on bigger brains.
Now we basically have caveman living in hierarchical societies, we have kings, aristocrats and slaves – and that is how the world was 5000 years ago. The kings build monumental architecture (pyramids and such). Then someone focused on a random word – so someone focused on what we talked about in part 1: Reality (that of which all is part) and realized one cannot see it (because we should be part of it, or the other two proofs for not being able to see all there is to Reality) and thus they invented the word God: it is one, one cannot see it – we have the dawn of monotheism.
Someone random-focused on the word “soul/self” too and realized one gets less anxiety by making a distinction between the body
one sees in ones imaginations
(the body in one´s plans which tries to get reproduction, survival, resources, power, etc. – the three evolutionary principles that we listed in the beginning of this chapter). One sees a body in front of oneself which tries to make plans to get these things. But it is not that body which is “true” – instead it´s the observer which sees this body which is “True” – and one cannot see that observer because one is it all the time. This was when they invented the Soul.
So the words God and Soul are legitimate concepts – then the church added a bunch of things like “the soul is immortal” and that “God said this and that to one or another person” (prophets and so on whom lied about a bunch of things). We also have the Golden Rule “do onto others like you would like to have them do onto you” which is a universal thing that they surely have on other planets: we are all humans, we want to be treated as of equal value. So from evolution we went from having cavemen to that someone came up with these
simple
thoughts, and then the church added a bunch of clutter to them. We thus have religions´ beginnings. The ideas of soul (the True self/observer which can´t be seen) and God (that of which all is part is One) are scientific ideas – so to some extent we have the beginnings of science.
Then people invented the telescope and microscope (to discover the sizes in the size-range), and we have a lot of knowledge and upbringing – but this is more intellectual history instead of biological history/evolution – but the intellectual has its foundation in the biological. So now we have gone through the whole story from the first cells to the birth of science.
I try to make this into a theory that is agreed upon by everyone; nowadays there are people who say that God (defined as a metaphysical mind) is needed to understand the theory of evolution – that there are mysteries within evolution. But I see no mysteries in this.
In a future book we will look at consciousness: which kind of emotional repertoire we have. We already said that we want power, we want reproduction, we want resources… But we will look closer at exactly which emotions exist and into which categories one can categorize them – and why they came about (what their evolutionary histories/pressures are). Which exact emotions? The feeling that one wants power, the feeling that one wants to help the flock, the feeling that one wants to plan how to get reproduction… - everything we do / the things that we do. For example I wrote this book because I´m at “war” with the enemies of civilization (“the enemy tribe”), because I want power out of selling this, reproduction out of getting status from having found a new way of describing some things, helping
countries ravaged by religion to become civilized (“helping flock-members”)…
These things drive me to do something intellectual. The emotional repertoire – that is to say: the diagrams about the brain – we can look at in the next book, because now we´ve looked at evolution and evolution created the brain so there is a lot of overlap.
Part 3:
The dawn of religion
No-one knows which kind of God emerged first (in protohuman minds). Was it the contemplation on Part 1 of this book (the oneness of Reality and it’s unrepresentability – focusing on the most all-encompassing concept)? Was there a war between two tribes/groups and to avoid soldiers from
deserting one’s own group, the priest/king claimed to get his orders from a super-human invisible entity (which “looks better” than a mere human giving orders). Thinking
“they have a superhuman invisible commander while our group is just mere humans” is demoralizing for the group believing that the enemy has something mystical super-human communicating with their leadership. This kind of god is a tool of war. Or was the first God invented in dog-brain sized brains where a simple cortical circuit (the assotiations: the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) lessened anxiety. We are after-all craving for the approval of “the hierarchical top”, we fear it... we have all kinds of emotions toward it and it can be imagined to love me, to dictate procedures like prayers to me, etc. It’s such a simple cortical circuit to define the hierarchy’s top as “that of which all is part (Reality)” and say that it loves me. That’s basically three concepts (hierarhical top (Reality) protecting me) – and it alliviates anxiety and gets us through dark nights of the soul. For the simple reason that it feels good to activate that circuit we try to “drug ourselves” by activating it over and over, emphasizing our belief in it, teaching it to everybody. The “hierarchical top (defined as Reality) protects me”-emotion
is one of those good feelings that we can activate at will. When we genetically engineer super-positive feelings to be activated by words, those new animals will propably activate their best emotions like a drug-addict seeks drugs – but they can activate it with words.
The circuitry is simple enough and panic attacks are common enough that I think everyone activates that “...protects/loves me”-circuitry during their life-time. Some choose to call it “belief in God”, others “the hierarchical top (defined as that of which all is part) protects me” and others don’t use any words for it because it is as unnoticable as digestion – something that naturally occurs in certain circumstances and one doesn’t need to be arrogant or proud of having that circuitry because it’s like 3-4 concepts (memorizing 4 concepts whom’s associations make us feel better is not a big feat).
Whichever type of God came first is lesser of a question, though, than: is heaven the same thing? Can “heaven” (and “hell”) be interpreted in a way that it makes sense? Heaven is obviously not a location in the sizerange (we don’t move in the sizerange when we die), so is heaven outside the entire theory (and thus “outside” (though this thing has no outside) that of which all is part)? No. Heaven may be synonomous to being good, and not some location in the diagram.
Maybe heaven is what the future genetically engineered super-happy animal will be in all the time.
Summary
Now that we know the three-pillar existential theory (like infinitely many extraterrestrials in infinite space thinks about it), we’ve got the beginning of evolution with a tiny DNA-strand (first reproduction sparking the three first evolutionary rules (1,2,3) and then the 4
th
(power). At the same time we see a continuum all the way to understand religions.
Since the infinitely many extraterrestrials are like us – they share the same logical evolutionary principles in sets following one another along time in a triangle-shape because increasing complexity is shown along the triangle.
It’s not like I don’t sometimes focus on the sentence “top of the hierarchy (defined as that of which all is part) loves and protects me” (“belief in God” in religious language).
Aliens can also prioritize what to focus on; what to take more off and what one wants to take less of. Aliens “judge” us based on principles like maximum happiness for all (animals, all humans), “do onto others like you’d want them do to yourself”. These are simple universal rules that aliens follow to maximize happiness in an otherwise brutal dog-eat-dog world.
On a common but erroneous rebuttal to my allegedly faul
t
y logic where I connect Kantian “the thing is not the thing itself” to “that of which all is part cannot be observed” (and thus there is more to the sizerange than... there is infinitely much
). I don’t jump from Kant to stating that there is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram.
I use another intellectual tradition parallell to Kant’s: it’s t
he intellectual tradition of playing with the word “observed/represented”.
How vaguely does the universe define this word? Answer: 0.
När jag studerade så var det en kurs om Kant som sa att "the map is not the territory", men jag hade associerat den tankebanan (vilken vi båda förstår och kan kalla Kantisk) med NLP (neuro-linguistic programming). Hursomhelst så håller vi med varandra om att Kant har rätt. Det finns en annan tankebana, dock, dvs ett extra-tillägg till Kants förståelse) och den handlar om tankeexperimentet att leka med ordet "representera" och hur vagt universum har definierat det ordet. I princip kan vad som helst representera vad som helst.
Barn har inte från början enbart den Kantiska tankevärlden gällande detta utan går gärna med på att "that of which all is part cannot be observed" (lek med ordet "observed" och hur vagt det är definerat i universum). Det betyder i sin tur att till allt det möjligen representerbara (på storleks-tids-diagrammet) finns mer; vi kan "observera" (spekulera) kring någonting oändligt mycket mindre än kvantmekaniken och ändå finns det mer är kan representeras (och här menar jag representeras utan människor).
To me, what’s worth noticing is the existential theory which predicts a tiny DNA-strand is more interesting because it is HOW God created the universe, or if you prefer: you remove God and the existential theory rests firmly on its three pillars.
To me, the core of religion seems to be different emotions to and from the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”). The context of course is hierarchical animals which were preceded by group-dwelling animals (we talked about this in part 2 of this book: evolution).
Having a simplistic association of concepts (merely the 3-4
concepts: hierarchical top – defined as that of which all is part – protects/loves/etc me) gives a relief of anxiety, fear, loneliness etc. Having the more complex picture of the same thing – the context surrounding it – makes the whole thing mundane because we realize that “hierarchical top” refers to our wolf-like nature and “that of which all is part” comes as an infinite sizerange.
As I’ve said I agree with the words Soul (true self vs false self; observer of the body in one’s plans vs. the body in one’s plans) and God (defined as “that of which all is part” and synonymous with Reality). But Heaven is a tricker question – what does “heaven” mean? It is obviously no unknown size-range
in the infinite sizerange nor a location in space, nor can it be “outside” [that of which all is part]. I acknowledge that believing in heaven gives the same kind of fear-relief as “the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) protects me”, but like I said: I have trouble not being complex and analyzing “the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) protects me” (putting it in it’s sizescalian and evolutionary context), and with “Heaven” I have even more trouble because the single simplest thought ruins that idea. If I were to try to “believe in Heaven” I’d have to focus so hard that my mind doesn’t wander to even the most closely associated or easily retrieved scientific concept (because that destroys heaven). I do believe in doing good out of solidarity, and that doing good will reak its rewards for the millions of coming generations.
So to me Holy Books tend to contain only the following: different emotions to and from the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) , scientific truths like that Reality cannot be seen, heaven & hell and rituals.
Other than material pleasures like humor, I think we can find
condolence
in that being something in nothing with a bleak evolutionary story is more grim than we feel it to be; the truth hurts but not as much as we can feel. We are worse off than we realize and we should be happy we don’t fully feel our meaningless depressing situation which is made sense of in an unintuitive (and thus gives the feeling of confusion) way
(I’m thinking mainly of the three-PILLAR existential theory).
In Holy Books I also tend to find what I’ll relate to you in an anecdote: I was sitting in the back-seat of a car on vacation in a country which I had fallen in love with, whilst winter was raging in my home country. The driver of the car asked if I wanted a hazelnut croissant. I thought what was more important of a topic was for me to whine about that I don’t ever want to leave this country, I want my vacation to last longer, I don’t want to go back to the darkness and snow. So I said “I don’t want to go back to Sweden 🙁 !!” and the driver asked “what does this have to do with the hazelnut croissant?”. I put my answer in a joke: “the connection between the two topics is very deep and significant, but it’s hard to explain: it’s mysterious – and that’s religion.” I tend to find, to say the least, unintuitive associations between concepts in holy books (not meant as jokes).
War and Boredom
Author
yonis
Posted on
31/12/2016
06/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on War and Boredom
2 Nobel Prizes
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/Untitled-Project2.mp4
Author
yonis
Posted on
12/12/2016
14/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on 2 Nobel Prizes
V 2-4
V2-4
Author
yonis
Posted on
08/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on V 2-4
Existential theory (2)
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/We-are-evolution-2.mp4
Author
yonis
Posted on
07/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Existential theory (2)
Summary in video (10 min)
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/Untitled.mp4
Author
yonis
Posted on
05/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Summary in video (10 min)
Latest version of my book
Warrior of Boredom
The title of this book refers to that it is hard to get through this book. The reason why this new science (that I present in this book) hasn’t been discovered until I did is because it’s depressing, anxiety-giving and BORING. But the question is: does everyone agree on it? If they do, that changes the Israel-Palestine-conflict where the parties of God are vetoing “the holy land”. Religion is the biggest cause for hate in the world, as Hitchens said. My book defeats religion – it’s a minimalist theory that works completely – a theory of Everything: existence (why there is size itself), evolution – even thoughts on the methodology for doing politics.
Philosophy = honor,
but anxiety/depression and boredom. Religion = no honor,
but less anxiety/depression and less boredom.
The big picture, accounting of everything, conflicts with certain positive-thinking brain-tricks and with our bias toward ignoring some negative/depressing aspects of nature.
The first part of this book will be a more detailed discourse about the following paragraph:
Descartes proved that there is distinction (between thinker and thought) - what's the opposite of distinction: "that of which all is part" (Reality). Since we are stuck in Descarte's thinker and thought-realm we can't see Reality, nor can "whatever" not represent it, meaning that there's more to it than can be contemplated/represented. Since all objects we know of fit in a size-time-diagram, this argument must mean that there is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram - and this in turn leads us to an existential theory (a theory about why there is size in the first place).
I realize that’s too fast of a paragraph to convince everyone and thus I want to convince the readers of this book to be warrios or boredom and see all my arguments.
Lecture 1
Descartes
One of the aims of this course is to get EVERYONE to agree so that they have the same associations between scientific concepts.
There is no other proper way to accomplish this goal than by starting with certain truth, which was found by Descartes in the 1600s. He lived in a time where they believed in demons, Gods etc. so he postulated a thought experiment where he assumed an almighty demon was fooling him in everything he could be fooled in: what would remain as certain truth – what could he not be fooled in?
If he was being fooled, where would still be a “he” (or self) there to be fooled, meaning that the self certainly exists. A self is necessary for a self to be fooled.
Descartes had thus concluded his own existence.
Being fooled is thinking – thus thought exists. “There is thought” Descartes concluded as certain truth. The word “fooling” represents a thought-process.
Descartes found the starting-position for any inquiry about truth: we can know certainly that thinker and thought exists.
Distinction exists (a logical conclusion from the above)
Looking at what we´ve found as certain truth so far “from above” (meta), we can take the next logical step – adding a third factoid to our 2-statement (A and B above) starting position: that there is distinction (
between
thinker and thought). The fact that thinker and thought are two separate entities concluded to be certain truth
s
through two
different
logical pathway
s
lets us conclude that “distinction exists”
. There are what Chinese philosophy calls “the ten thousand things” (referring to the world) – there are at least two (three if we include “distinction” as th
e third thing) certain entities, and empirically we know there are “ten thousand things” (not taking the number 10 000 literally but just referring to multiplicity).
First universal diagram
We can draw the thinker and thought and distinction between them as two dots with a line between them on a piece of paper (fig. 1).
Now we have something all religions agree on
– we´ve drawn up ideas and associations between them. Everyone ought to have the same associations (explanatory thoughts) between the concepts we´ve looked at so far.
We have, if you will – in figure 1 – a universal diagram.
Reality
We have the capability to conglomerate many separate entities under the rubric of a single category. If we use this capability to collect the “ten thousand things” (distinct entities) we´ve found so far into a single thing, we ought to give that thing a word/name. Its definition can be “that of which all is part” and “the opposite of separation/distinction”. I will use the word Reality to refer to this all-encompassing thing.
In lecture 2 I will present three proofs for that “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, but for now we can draw (adding to figure 1) a dot with a cross over it – the cross to symbolize that the dot itself is a false representation of Reality because we (the observer/self/thinker) should be part of that dot. See fig 2.
Thinking about what we´ve got so far
Thinking about what we´ve got so far (fig. 2) it’s a bundle of associations which make universal inter-religious (all religions agree on it) knowledge with both words and pictures.
In the next lecture I present why the line in fig 2 (see fig 3) represents the opposition/antagonism/disagreement/contraposition/divergence/variance between the two sides of the paper; between “thinker and thought” on one side of the paper and “Reality (that of which all is part; the opposite of separation)” on the other side of the paper.
Worth noting now is that the left side of the paper represents separation/distinction whilst the right side of the paper represents the opposite of separation/distinction – both are legitimate ideas: thinker and thought – and distinction – is certain truth based on Descartes and we all know which idea we refer to when talking about the all-encompassing [that of which all is part] Reality.
In the next lecture we will talk about why the line in fig. 3 makes it so that we can´t see Reality – I will present three proofs like in a crime case, and we will talk about what we can see if we can´t see Reality.
Making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far
1
See fig. 1 again: it´s our starting-point and the thinking that occurs in it happens in Descartes “realm of mind”; it is the mind´s realm (the left side of the paper) in which the thinking happens, and one thing we talk about is Reality on the right side of the paper in fig 3. Since the line in fig. 3 represents both the legitimacy of the ideas on both sides of the paper, and simultaneously the opposition between separation/distinction (on the left side of the paper) and [the opposite of separation/distinction] on the right side of the paper. That opposition is important and I will show its significance in lecture 2.
2
Starting from Descartes realm (of if you will: assuming that all we know is what we know for certain), we have the capability to state that there is a single Reality of which all is part – so even though we see separation we must grant that that separation (all entities) fits into a category we call Reality. There is a unifying whole even though the human mind (Descartes realm) is limited in its ways when it tries to contemplate Reality.
Not only is there the map-territory distinction (which will be presented as one out of three proofs in lecture 2), but there is also a more fundamental opposition between distinction and its opposite (there is a more fundamental opposition between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3). Not only are we stuck in the map-territory-distinction-realm but we also can conclude that no representation (regardless of the mind) is equal to Reality (on a more fundamental level than the map-territory-problem).
Representation is done in the brain using neurons and in a computer using electrons, but there is no reason why the most distant atom or quark couldn´t be proposed to be a symbol for [that of which all is part] – and even in that brainless scenario we will see in lecture 2 that “that of which all is part cannot be represented”. The map-territory-distinction is just proof/evidence number two in lecture 2 (for that we cannot see Reality and thus, since we do see/represent something, there must be more to Reality than can be represented i.e. the size-time-diagram (presented in lecture
2) is infinite along both axes.
Proof 3 in lecture 2 removes the brain from the equation and still proves that there is more to Reality than can be seen/represented/symbolized (using any means/any method – even without a brain), and since some representation is obviously (since we know that there are minds) possible, there must be more than can be represented/contemplated i.e. the size-axis is infinite and the time-axis is infinite in that two-axis diagram.
3
Both sides of the paper in fig. 3 are legitimate ideas. But still they are opposites (separation on one side and the opposite of separation on the other side). How can two derived-from-logic sides of the paper be opposites but still both be legitimate?
Usually opposition – like between Democrats and Republicans – means that one is right and the other is wrong; they can´t both simultaneously be right: you can´t meaningfully vote for both parties at the same time.
The case is different between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3: both sides are right and they are opposites.
There is a single Reality and there is multiplicity in distinction.
What does this mean? That there is more to the size-time-diagram than anything could represent – any representation fails (you can think of some
examples/suggestions for how to represent [that of which all is part]/[the opposite of separation]) – and thus the axes on the size-time-diagram are infinite. This is a hither to unpresented fact in science – it is new science: some of the best scientists ignorantly believe that the size-range is limited/finite.
4
We have quite a few associations and symbols in fig. 3 which must be agreed upon, and here I´m using the word “must” in the sense that “by the rules of logic X must be true”. Other civilizations throughout the infinitely many galaxies there are use the exact same ideas (but in a different language) and have the same associations between them (that there are infinitely many galaxies is derived from that the size-axis in the size-time-diagram is infinite). There is distinction as the third truth to be added to Descartes two fundamental truths (thinker and thought exist), and all that is opposed to (on the other side of the paper in fig. 3) to the all-encompassing Reality which is defined using at least two definitions: that of which all is part and the opposite of separation.
I´m tri-lingual but I write the same ideas and associate them in the same ways no matter which language I write in – its universal science beginning from certain truth. On other planets that have civilizations my writings in this book ought to match up quite near to the writings creating the same lecture series based on universal science that I´m creating
– “alien”/exo-planet
lecture series proceed, beginning from certain fact, through logical steps as I do.
5
[Thinker and thought] (certain truth) and thus distinction/separation are associated through negation/opposition to the right side of the paper in figure 3: Reality. The left side is not the right side just like separation is not its opposites. Both being legitimate ideas, though, connects them in the way that thinker and thought (and all other distinct entities) are in the category Reality.
Even though Reality and distinction are opposites, distinction dwells in (as a sub-entity within the category) Reality.
The associations between the left and right sides of the paper in figure 3 are both united through the notion “opposition” and through the notion that distinction is inherent in Reality (Reality being the opposite of distinction
because we have all-encompassing and its opposite: composite parts).
6
It is certainly true that all is part of a single Reality; but it is equally true that in every observation there is an observer and hence distinction (between thinker and thought). We see separate entities is as true as that the self that we are is not in front of us – but everything we see (thought/object) is in front of us.
That is evidence 1 in lecture 2 (not a proof, but a mere suggestion/evidence that [that of which all is part cannot be observed] and thus there is more to Reality than our concept of [infinitely much].
All we know about Reality has two properties: a size and a time. Size and time are two axes on a diagram, and thus all we know fits into the size-time-diagram (every object or location in space has a size and time).
There is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram because all suggested representors for Reality fail
(for three reasons taken up in lecture 2).
7
All
bundles of associations in this chapter “making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far”
are written in order to create some universal brain structures (universal because
science is the same everywhere (on all exo-planets), and their brains make the same associations too eventually). It´s not some random bundle of associations nor did I randomly present random ideas.
I assume the brain structure created by understanding this book is a replica of something derived from science; a replica of brain structures on the infinitely many other civilization-bearing planets. It´s a universal “ideology”, if you will.
Everyone has a possibility of sharing it in agreement – and future lectures will add a whole lot of complexity to it; agreement tends to build friendship so study is a way of bringing more peace to the world.
Once the full world-view is presented throughout this book, it´s a way of pacifying the world.
8
We have two brain-halves: one linguistic and one visual. So far we´ve both drawn pictorial representations and connected words – both brain-halves have been working. The connections across corpus collosum (which sits between the brain-halves and connects them) that connect a linguistic narrative/explanation to the pictorial representations are one day found in all humans thanks to science. Our brains are becoming more as science has a propensity to make them be.
This course itself, since it begins with certain truths and builds upon it logically, is a universal course (to the best of my ability).
The brain cells that constitute the negation (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 3) or opposition are not the same kind of cells (they are inhibitory neurons) that connect thinker with though as both being certain truths (but the thinker is not the thought and thus has inhibitory cells making that brain-structure work too
(what you are is not in front of you;
what you are is not visible).
Since both Reality and [what you are]/self/observer/thinker are invisible the brain might erroneously and spontaneously try to associate them, so a brain-structure is needed to inhibit that association (and replace it with a more complex explanation). That spontaneous but erroneous association is something all thinking animals throughout the universe evolved to do, and the inhibition of it through culture/civilizing/science is universally available within complex enough civilizations throughout the universe.
As you can see the brain structures responsible for doing this thing are quite complex, but also universal and thus accessible to all humans, and predictably will someday be in all humans (fostering agreement, thus friendship, thus peace).
Lecture 2
Perceive, apprehend, notice are synonyms for our representing ability, but I will use the word “see” or “observe” to refer to all of these. The goal of this lecture is to prove the statement “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, Reality being defined as “that of which all is part”. In other words: we cannot see Reality, and thus there is more to Reality than even can be contemplated (i.e. infinitely much).
I will build this lecture like a criminal court case: I will present three proofs for that we cannot see Reality i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated i.e. (since we can contemplate anything (right or wrong)) Reality is infinite.
Since anything/everything we know about Reality has some size and time, it fits into a size-time-diagram. See fig. 4.
In fig. 4 size is represented along the vertical axis and time along the horizontal axis. The objects humans see in everyday life (from the horizon to a single cell as one “pixel” in our visual field) are marked in “the human range”.
See fig 5.
In fig. 5 I´ve drawn the same diagram as in fig. 4 but this time with infinity-symbols in each corner of the squareical size-time-diagram. Two infinite axes become a square.
Proof number 3 in our “court case” for proving that the size-time-diagram (Reality) is infinite has us imagine the unobservable separatenessless Reality and ask whether there is a maximum or minimum size to/in it (a maximum/minimum being separateness while we are talking about the opposite of separation). This is again to confirm that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes.
The line we drew in fig. 4 was for separating the two sides of the paper; opposing “thinker and thought” (distinction) with its opposite: one all-encompassing non-distinction Reality. That opposition-line is what this lecture is about since it proves that the two sides of the paper are
separate/opposing realms and we are stuck in one realm as long as we are observers (because observation is separation/distinction (thinker and thought)).
Proving that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes is new science because it poses the question: what happened before the Big Bang (14 billion years ago), and it presents one pillar of our existential theory: that each size is the reason for each next and previous size, and the size axis is infinite, meaning the “beginning” of the relationship between sizes keeps retreating into infinity the more we contemplate the range of the size axis.
When I presented fig. 4 for the first time I drew a cross over the dot symbolizing Reality for the plain reason that we (as observers) should be part of that dot, and by the very nature of us being separate (and the dot representing the opposite of separation) we should draw a cross over it symbolizing that we cannot see it.
The main proof though is that even if all observers were dead there´d still be, inherent and fundamental in nature, the opposition between distinction and distinction´s opposite (the two sides of the paper in fig. 4). The line is an opposition-line and it is more fundamental than being dependent on humans/observers – it refers to all representation whether it’s using/including humans or not. I am, in other words, not talking about the map-territory distinction (which symbolizes that humans have mental maps and not the real world per se; like Kant said: we have “the thing” and not “the thing itself”). Proof 2 – the opposition-line between the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 – is not subjective: it is true that we live with the map-territory-distinction but even if I died there´d still be separate things (chairs separate from cups), that kind of separation is not dependent on me/observers. Simultaneously the flipside of the coin (the other side of the paper in fig. 4) is true too: all is one single Reality (the opposite of separation). Proof 2, in other words, should not be interpreted as signifying the map-territory distinction (human subjectivity) but instead a fundamental opposition in the universe.
If we do not see Reality, then what do we see? Everything we see fits into the size-time-diagram, and since the opposition-line in fig. 4 shows that there is a fundamental rule that states, in 3 different proofs, that Reality is infinite / there is more than can even be contemplated / there is more than even non-subjective representation can represent.
Proof number 1 is really weaker than a “proof” – it´s more like evidence. It wouldn´t hold up in a court but it is a way of stating what the other proofs too point towards. Proof 1 is what we saw when presenting figure 4: any dot representing Reality is an incorrect representation because the observer should be part of the object – the thinker should be part of the thought. It denies Cartesian separation and thus is untrue, meaning that anything we draw on the right side of the paper in fig. 4 is incorrect.
We can contemplate anything: we can speculate about what´s smaller than quantum physics, or even what´s smaller than that, etc. into infinity. We are probably wrong, but any contemplation/representation counts as a contemplation – and since we know that, whether right or wrong as our contemplations may be, there is more to Reality than can be contemplated, it follows that there must be infinitely much to Reality. Since all we know about Reality fits into a size-time-diagram, the minimalist approach is to state that it´s the size-time-diagram that is infinite.
This warrants two new words: the knowable/known size-range and the infinite size-range. The knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range. Since Einstein unified space (size) and time, one cannot be infinite without the other one being the same. Science today doesn´t know whether there was a “before” to the Big Bang or not (whether time was created at the Big Bang), but now we know that the Big Bang is just an event on an infinite time axis. In a future lecture we will talk about how/why the Big Bang recreates (happens over and over).
We talked about universal diagrams (and universal brain-structures) in lecture 1. The size-time-diagram is one major universal diagram. A lot of detail can be added to it because all fields of science fit into it. The infinity-symbols on each axis of the squareical diagram are drawn, based on science, on exo-planets with advanced enough civilizations.
This lecture is about proving that [that of which all is part] (the opposite of separation) i.e. Reality cannot be observed/represented, and that this fact is true irrespective of whether we are observers or dead, and applying this to the size-time-diagram (which gets its infinity-symbols into the squareical diagram).
Proof number 2 (the main proof) is the oppositional approach between Reality and distinction, and it is not subjective because Reality and Reality´s opposite exist even if we were dead. Proof number 3 is about imagining (even though no imagination is it) Reality as a big gray (because energymass is white and spacetime is black) solid, in which we know no observer should be (because observation is separation) – does it have separation i.e. a biggest and a smallest size? No, because such distinctions are not in the opposite of distinction (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 4).
I´ve mentioned universal associations in the brain / exo-planet science, so talking about the size-time-diagram we can add more universal notions to it: why did I draw upwards on the size axis as larger and downward as smaller? Why is the time-axis horizontally drawn instead of vertically? The diagram works even if we would define the vertical axis as time and the horizontal axis as size – so why do we draw size vertically and time horizontally? Is it universal i.e. on other planets or just a human convention like writing from left to right in English-speaking countries and right to left in Arabic-speaking countries?
Evolution has it so that during the history of science telescopes look upward and microscopes look downward. This would be the case on other planets too: they turn their heads upward to see the large and downward (onto a table) to see the small; the opposite can´t be true on any planet. Thus we get the size axis´ standard (of upward being larger) from evolution / the history of science. I use the word “standard” because it comes from evolution rather than being more fundamentally hard-wired into the universe such as the fact that the size-time-diagram is a square with infinity symbols. That the size-time-diagram is a square is not a standard – it is something stronger than that. The fact that we represent time on the vertical axis (and upward as larger) comes from a weaker source: tradition (even though that same tradition is true on all planets; evolution, in this regard, happens the same on all planets that end up with civilizations).
We thus have added standards or weak conventions (derived from history) in addition to having strong diagrams like the size-time-diagram being a square. The distinction between the two is made based on science and is thus made on exo-planets.
Scientists are looking for exo-planets that bear civilizations. If the size-range is infinite – as we´ve proven that it is – then each particular size (like the human range in fig. 5) is infinite too; if the largest is infinitely large then there is, considering the size of a human, an infinite distance in any direction that that human could find itself in. This makes civilizations on other planets a must, not an assumption. The known/knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range, and within the known size-range there is a range in which evolution occurs (between the smallest cells and the biggest organisms), and since we´ve proven that there are infinitely many objects within/of that size-range, then there must be infinitely many locations in which evolution occurs.
In the next lecture we will bind together the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 (distinction and distinction´s opposite; “thinker and thought” opposing Reality) with E=mc
2
(energymasspacetime) and with the infinity of the size-time axes, into a single existential theory which is a rival to “God created earth in 6 days…” The existential theory is a minimalist account for why there is a sizescale in the first place, and why there is something (energymass) rather than nothing (spacetime). It reminds me of this passage: “HITCHENS: In other words, as the great physicist Laplace said when he demonstrated his working model (his orrery, as it’s called) of the solar system to the emperor and Napoleon said, “Well I see there’s no God in this system,” and Laplace said, “Well, Your Majesty, it works without that assumption.””
In this chapter I´ve presented three proofs for that the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in it i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated; we do represent something but however we choose to represent (even representations that can be proposed as thought-experiments if we were dead) we do not represent Reality i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality. Are there any counter-arguments saying that the size-time-diagram is finite? I built this lecture like a court case and I´d like to hear the opposing side. There are no arguments that oppose what I´ve proven so far.
Lecture 3
E=mc
2
E=mc
2
as an equation is only used in relativistic scenarios such as very high speed or very high energy, but since speed is a continuum the equation is true at slower speeds. There is a difference between the equation being applicable (being needed while solving equations) and it being true; it is always true everywhere but it is not needed for equations except in special scenarios.
An example of the equation being true everywhere and always is this: nuclear power-plants turn mass (kilograms) into energy (joule), so that if you input 1 kg of uranium-mass you get out 99.9999 kg of waste products – some of the mass turned into energy which lights our light-bulbs. The atoms that lost some weight (that weight was converted into energy) are atoms just like other kinds of atoms, for example in autumn leaves. If you´d drop leaves into the core of the sun, the sun´s nuclear furnace would turn mass in the leaves into energy (light). Hence all objects are subject to the E=mc
2
-rule, which states that energy (E) equals mass (m). This warrants the word energymass because they are no longer two distinct things – they are but different manifestations of the same thing. In the brain
energymass should be a single idea whilst the concepts “energy and mass” refers to two different forms of a single idea.
Verbs and adjectives tend to refer to energy (shining, running, etc.) while nouns refer to mass (body, tree, etc.) E=mc
2
states that the two (verbs/adjectives and nouns) are together in a single equation. Although only applicable in relativistic scenarios (the role of relativism becomes close to zero in everyday human events, except that our light-bulbs shine because mass turns into energy and the sun can makes leaves into light), E=mc
2
is in a “philosophical” sense true everywhere and always just like Pythagoras’s theorem about triangles remains “philosophically true” even where there are no physical triangles. You wouldn´t say 1=1 is not true in empty space just because there are no objects there to count as “1”.
In addition to energymass being a single concept (and not two distinct ones), spacetime gets added into the mix by the c
2
-part of the equation. c is the speed of light (km/h) and thus a distance (space) over time – spacetime! Energymass (E=m) and spacetime (c
2
) should in the brain be represented by a single idea which we can call energymasspacetime. This harkens back to the previous lectures about Reality, which is a synonym for energymasspacetime. Einstein invented the equation E=mc
2
and thus unified in it energymass with spacetime – and synonyms for energymass are “existence” or “1” while synonyms for spacetime are “non-existence”, “emptiness”, “nothing” and “zero”. There is no more to be considered regarding Reality than energymasspacetime; energymasspacetime involves everything (energymass) and nothing (spacetime) so there is nothing more to be considered/added to Reality – Reality is energymasspacetime; everything is included into Reality once we have defined Reality as energymasspacetime.
The Existential Theory
Each culture seems to have a creation myth (such as genesis) – the creation of the cosmos/world/Reality is something humans have invented hypotheses for during millennia. The stories answer the question “why are we here?”
The true answer is unintuitive. First of all: why is there any particular size? What justifies, say, the size of a molecule? The answer is: the smaller and the larger (the rest of the size-range). Atoms justify a molecule and a molecule exhibits a place for atoms to live in: justifies atoms. Humans need an earth to dwell on (the earth is larger) and humans are made of cells (cells are smaller). Each size bears a relationship upon each other size – the smaller justify the larger and the larger justify the smaller. Since the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all four corners of the square (because of the proof where we had two sides of a paper), the size-range is infinite i.e. the pattern of justification between/amongst sizes continues into the infinitely large and infinitely small. What the ancients called “the first cause” keeps retreating into infinity size-wise the more we contemplate it. The size-range is like a fractal: you can keep zooming in or out infinitely much, and the question “why is there this particular object that I see” has its answer in the relationship between all the sizes: justification. Infinite justification is the reason why there is a size-range at all. But there is more that is needed for a full-fledged existential theory: two more factors play their roles.
Spacetime is emptier than we can imagine/represent it. We (and all representeurs) are energymass and thus are the opposite of spacetime. We could let a piece of empty space represent spacetime, but as soon as we use energymass (such as our brains) to do so, we´ve lost the truly empty nature of
spacetime: it is unimaginably empty. Any bundle of neurons, no matter how we wire it, is still the opposite of what they want to represent when they want to present us with spacetime. It is therefore useful to have two concepts for spacetime: (1) our simplest intuition of spacetime and (2) additional defining language explaining that spacetime is emptier than (1). This is how exoplanet civilizations would wire their brains regarding the concept “spacetime” too, just because it’s the most accurate science they can manage.
Just like energy and mass are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon, energymass and spacetime are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon. What does it mean for spacetime to be bundled together with (intertwined with) energymass? Everything exists as/in/because of nothing; 1 exists in 0; energymass and spacetime are together in the E=mc
2
-equation. Where could energymass/existence exist? In nothingness. Just like sizes justify one another, spacetime justifies energymass.
The last question that remains, after we have justification between sizes in an infinite size-range, and that all points in the size-time-diagram are made of energymasspacetime (and energymass is justified by it being in spacetime), is the objective fact that there both is a single Reality (the right side of the paper) and there´s its opposite: distinction (between, say, thinker and thought).
The existential theory builds on three “pillars”/fundamental ideas:
An infinite sizescale,
Energymasspacetime as in the equation E=mc
2
Distinction between distinction itself and distinction´s opposite (see fig. 1, 2, 3):
Between distinction (the left side of the paper, our 2 certain truths: I exist and there is thought) and Reality (the opposite of distinction; one Reality (not plural)) there is a line that demarcates distinction/opposition.
Putting it all into one phrase we might say: “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime with opposition between distinction and Oneness”. At its core it´s three ideas (infinite size-time-diagram, energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
), separation and intertwinedness (the two sides of the paper)). On exoplanets they would state their reason for their own existence using these three ideas too, because taken together they explain all that needs to be explained: first thing that comes to mind is that in the stated existential theory there must be a reproducing shape (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape; a DNA-strand) somewhere. If the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all three corners, then evolution ought to occur somewhere (and be made of energymass in spacetime, while being separate/distinct in a single intertwined Reality).
Most creation-myths have a quite simple (one-pillared) and mundane story: for example genesis just states that God created Reality (that of which all is part) in 6 days and rested on the 7
th
. The scientific rival to all such creation stories is a three-pillared theory – we can´t make it any simpler (we can´t make it one-pillared) and the same would be the case on exoplanets: they too can only break it down to three interconnected ideas/pillars/fundaments, so in thinking this way we share a common intellectual history with exoplanet civilizations advanced enough to figure out this existential theory.
On a test on this subject a question might be: “what are the three pillars of the existential theory?” – the question can´t be “what is the most important pillar in the existential theory?” All pillars are equally important but constitute as distinct ideas as E=mc
2
is from infinite size, or the separation-intertwinedness-opposition (fig. 3).
This three-pillared creation story – the sum of these three chapters – is built upon logic: it includes certain truths like “I think and I exist” (distinction/separation), its opposite (Reality for which we have three proofs for that it can´t be observed/seen/contemplated i.e. the size-time-diagram is infinite), E=mc
2
which unifies nothing/spacetime with existence/energymass, and the relationship between any two sizes (justification along the infinite size-range). Every one of these ideas relates very closely to Descartes´ certain truth, meaning we can be sure of the ideas themselves – and they together build up a minimalist existential theory which needs no further logic to explain everything there is.
Having an infinite size-range has a predictive quality to it too – it makes a prediction: there ought to be evolution (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar mass) somewhere in the diversity we see throughout even the known size-range.
Though as non-intuitive as the 3-pillar existential theory may be to our evolved brains who want a single conclusion, exoplanet civilizations have the same limits and biases as us: they too are stuck with three pillars in a single theory to make the theory explainable. Science is creating universal (exoplanet) neural pathways in our brains. We should embrace the fact that by being non-intuitive but true, this science wires our brain based on science and thus universally. It is the way (the wiring) that all planets are headed to if they´re into science. It´s a universal world-view. We´re thinking like aliens.
In current scientific debates the religious will argue that faith (in a dogma) is needed to (what they call) “understand” the existence of the universe. If confronted with my theory (these lectures) they´d have to agree that logic makes their God unnecessary as a pillar of creation. In the best case scenario God is simply a synonym for Reality (because Reality is “that of which all is part” and thus God ought to be part of it too, and all we know about Reality is that it is energymass in spacetime and separation in intertwinedness).
Having an explanation – the negative side of it is it being three-pillared and unintuitive, the positive side of it being that it accounts for all of Reality and predicts evolution – further justifies the saying “a God of the gaps” (meaning the more we understand the less we need God). Now all that remains to be understood – again in an unintuitive but identical to exoplanets -way – is how, on an infinite time-line, the Big Bang (denseness) recreates and fades away into sparseness (black holes removing energymass and dark energy creating more space until no galaxies are anymore visible).
Lecture 4
The beginning of the Big Bang
I have a hard time imagining how the universe can reach complete emptiness, but it wouldn´t be the first time the universe´s nature surpasses human intuition. In the history of science stars were observed to not move relative to one another on the night sky, and this was argued to prove that the size of the universe was much smaller than the now known size – it was argued that the universe would be “unreasonably big” if the stars didn´t seem to move relative to one another as the earth moved because they were so far away.
If only enough time is needed for the universe to become empty, then we get the starting scenario which is most reasonable: we start with emptiness (spacetime). Again, spacetime is emptier than our concept for it because we (and our concepts) are made of energymass.
If you move your hand one meter (from position 1 to position 2), the laws of nature that make your hand make sense were already in place in the space of position 2 before you moved your hand there. It´s not like the universe/spacetime was absurd in location 2 and only started to make sense regarding hands when you moved your hand there. We do not impact the laws of nature in such ways; instead the laws of nature are simultaneously and equally true at all locations and all times. In other words: Pythagoras’s theorem is true even in locations where there are no objects whatsoever, but the theorem is only applicable (to be applied) to triangles. In empty space there are no objects and thus no triangles, but Pythagoras´s theorem is true there anyhow – it does not suddenly become true (switch from being untrue to true) when a triangle is imagined or physically moved there. This applies to E=mc
2
too, which is just as much of a law of nature as Pythagoras´s theorem. E=mc
2
is true everywhere and always, though humans only apply (use) the equation in certain scenarios. Where triangles can be (in spacetime) there is also E=mc
2
. Laws of nature are fundamental and inherent in spacetime and do not come about depending on events (though our application/use of any particular equation is dependent on which event we´re analyzing).
There is distinction between the practical use of equations (to solve problems or understand a phenomenon) and the core nature of spacetime having laws of nature in it. Spacetime is a no-nonsense spacetime – we live in a rational (laws of nature-abiding) universe.
One law being E=mc
2
and another one being “if it is said it must exist” (meaning energymass can´t be mentioned in the laws of nature of spacetime without energymass existing), we get spacetime to summon energymass if the starting-point was complete emptiness. “If energymass is mentioned it must be summoned” (it is mentioned in E=mc
2
) is true because it would be a nonsense universe if it “talks” about energymass without there being any – just infinite space for eternity with laws of nature regarding energymass, but never any energymass appearing/being present. It would be a nonsense universe if energymass it mentioned but never exists. It would be akin to the universe telling lies (having all these rules like E=mc
2
but never applying them to anything), or the universe babbling gibberish (having inapplicable laws of nature).
Thus, E=mc
2
being a core property of spacetime itself and the “no gibberish”-rule applying, energymass must logically be summoned – but how and where? Extremely dense i.e. everywhere, in the smallest spaces, simultaneously. Why? Our starting-point is spacetime, which needs no prior justification because it is the opposite of existence: it doesn´t exist – it is emptier than our neurons make it out to be. In it Einstein´s theory of relativity is true, meaning that there is no center point (or in other words: all points are the center) so there is no center to the Big Bang. Another way of seeing it is that as soon as there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification), E=mc
2
became true in all locations (in the smallest spaces) simultaneously – no point in space was before another in having E=mc
2
be true in it. Spacetime having E=mc
2
as a core property has E=mc
2
be true everywhere simultaneously; once we have the launching-condition of empty spacetime, through E=mc
2
, energymass is summoned everywhere simultaneously.
This “everywhere” is all things within an event horizon, meaning that things moving away faster than the speed of light (due to dark energy/accelerating cosmic expansion) are not within our event
horizon: they are not part of what can be reasonably called “our 3-dimensional space” (from our location). Things are not part of our universe once their speed hits faster than the speed of light – and many locations, within the boundaries of their respective event horizons, will one day have all energymass moving away from them at speeds faster than the speed of light (this is just the observed fact of accelerating cosmic expansion). Such a finite space with no energymass within its event horizon (all energymass moving away faster than the speed of light) would constitute “completely empty space” i.e. our starting-point for the Big Bang (energymass being summoned due to E=mc
2
).
Consider an infinite size-range - it is made of energymasspacetime: if we draw it as the Y-axis on a diagram, there can´t be a region/length in it (such as the knowable size-range) which is completely empty forever. See fig. 6.
Because of the rules E=mc
2
and “if it is mentioned it must be summoned”/”no-nonsense universe” are true throughout the infinite size-range, there can´t be a region with just spacetime (with its laws of nature) because the laws of spacetime mention energymass; spacetime is inherently tied to and intertwined with energymass – existence and non-existence go together (at all sizes). There would be no logical breaking-point (a particular size) where energymasspacetime transitions into being just spacetime for a range of sizes and then transitions back into energymasspacetime; there is no logical breaking-point where the implications of E=mc
2
(the implication being: energymass and spacetime are in the same equation) stop to be true. The transition seen in fig. 6 is impossible (there is no “empty region”). Having an empty region would be akin to zooming into the decimals of pi and seeing no numbers for a specific array of decimals: 3.14159ÄÄÄÄ265359... The Ä´s can´t be there: it´s a continuous sequence of decimal numbers. There is no break/”empty region” in the continuous decimals of pi just as there is no region of the size-range that can be empty of energymass.
In this chapter I´ve written something akin to “
first
there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification unless you consider that the size-axis of the size-time-diagram is infinite),
then
there was E=mc
2
,
then
there was energymass summoned into the smallest spaces available (available = considered to be within an event horizon and empty)”. This harkens back to previous lectures´ talk about “alien logic” (how exoplanets think). To have it make sense to our brains we use the time-
distinctions “first, then and then” but the real distinction is not in time but in steps in a sequence of logic. In other words all the mentioned steps happened simultaneously to start the Big Bang: E=mc
2
was true as soon as there was spacetime, and as soon as there was that, energymass appeared as not to make the universe absurd (by it talking gibberish or it having an empty region like in fig. 6).
The end of the Big Bang
Telescopes observe that “space is being born” i.e. that the distances between clumps of energymass (galaxies) are getting larger, and at an accelerating pace too. Not only does the Hubble law state that an object a
million light
-
years
away would be receding from us at 21 km/sec and at double the distance twice the speed, but the law states that that speed (for example 21 km/sec a million light years away) is increasing. This is called accelerating cosmic expansion. It means that from our galaxy, when/if we look into the sky trillions of years in the future, we´d see no trace of any other galaxy let alone the cosmic microwave background (because their speeds have passed the speed of light and thus went beyond the event horizon). Once that object a million light years away from us which today is racing away at 21 km/sec reaches 299792 km/sec (the speed of light), it will pass from being within our event horizon to being outside our sphere of events.
This empties our universe or as Hitchens put it: “nothingness is coming”. Once that nothingness comes we have our starting point where we run through the logic of E=mc
2
–> “if it is mentioned it must exist/be summoned” (in order for the universe not to talk gibberish or the infinite size-range not to have a break in it) –> energymass begins as dense (because of relativity and because E=mc
2
is true everywhere simultaneously/equally).
We observe that nothingness (within event horizons) is coming, and beginning from nothingness there is unintuitive logic that has a predictive quality to it: the Big Bang should start dense. This theory works well with lecture 2´s proofs for that “there is more to Reality than can be represented” (the size-time-diagram is infinite) because size is essentially space, and space and time are intertwined into a single spacetime – hence: if size/space is infinite then time must be infinite too. In other words we have reoccurring Big Bangs interspersed along the time-axis of our size-time-diagram. As soon as a region bound by an event horizon becomes empty we have the universe´s no-nonsense-laws kicking in and E=mc
2
summons energymass (in the smallest sizes that are empty equally/simultaneously).
The sequence of consecutive Big Bangs´ beginnings (emptiness leading to energymass being summoned) and ends (accelerating cosmic expansion speeding things past a point´s event horizon and emptiness being summoned) are as infinite as the time-axis proved to be based on lecture 2´s proofs. Proving (in lecture 2) that spacetime is infinite fits perfectly with the reoccurring Big Bangs (when somethingness becomes emptiness and then emptiness summons somethingness).
There will in other words, between the beginning of a Big Bang and the end of that same Big Bang, be life within the conscious/human size-range (the different locations of that size already being infinitely many, see fig. 4).
Each size along the size-axis is defined as “3-dimensional infinite space” meaning there is infinitely much life with access to universal science (i.e. some version of this lecture-series), and within our region (bound by an event horizon) there is life between the beginning and end of Big Bangs. In addition I have hard to believe that a reproducing shape (and thus evolution) only occurs in only
one
size-range (the, for humans, knowable size-range) in an infinite size-range: there ought to be many sub-size-ranges as part of the infinite size-range where evolution occurs and can reach scientific knowledge. All life mentioned above, if they reach scientific understanding, would concur on the existential theory presented in these lectures (especially lecture 3 – the three pillars/foundations/ideas which together become a minimalist theory for why there is the infinite size-range of energymasspacetime in the first place).
This is not only exoplanet science – it is science between Big Bangs and it is science in regions of the size-axis far away (in size) from our knowable size-range. See fig. 7.
Summary
First we looked at Descartes’ ”thought exists” and ”the self exists”, claimed that it was two valid statements and pointed out the distinction between them. On the other side of the paper we wanted to represent anti-distinction (the opposite of distinction) defined as “that of which all is part” (Reality), and realized that since thinker/thought is stuck on the left side of the paper we can’t represent Reality. This is not only Kant’s “the thing is not the thing itself (the mental map is not the real territory)” but more importantly whatever cannot be taken to represent “that of which all is part” i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality.
All we know about Reality (atoms, humans, galaxies) fit into a size-time-diagram (every object has a size and a time), so the minimalist approach combining the above paragraph with this one is to use the first paragraph to prove that the size-time diagram has infinite
axes. This in turn leads to an existential theory which can be summed up as “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime” – and it has a predictive quality to it: somewhere in such an existence there would be a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape and thus we get reproduction/evolution.
So far we’ve looked at the theory of why size itself exists, why there is something rather than nothing – an existential theory beginning from certain truth and logically building its way up all the way to predicting evolution.
Part 2: Evolution
My explanation of evolution focuses on how important disease and bullying (power) was for evolution.
Power
means that
fish
were
fighting fish breeding more agressive fish = dinosaurs, then wolfpacks with an alpha male.
But even before and after those eras in evolution the rule of power was in play.
In part one we had an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime (including the intertwinedness-separation-opposition and the time-axis with repeating Big Bangs perpendicular to the size-axis) that predicts a reproducing shape i.e. a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape: reproduction in an infinite size-range.
This infinite size-range predicts reproduction.
Part one was about why there is a sizescale of energymasspacetime: the answers are that the sizescale is infinite and that energymass is in spacetime. It predicts that there should be a reproducing shape: say that it is a triangle which gathers surrounding lines into a similar triangle – then it has reproduced itself. The products of this reproduction obey three rules: directly when there was reproduction three rules came into play, I´ve listed them below as 1, 2, 3 but they are not in order (they came simultaneously):
1:
There is life and death: those who survive survive and those who die are not in the game anymore. “The surviving survive”. It´s so simple – we see it in everyday life today. But everything in evolution will come back to these three rules so we might as well do the banal and bring them up.
So directly when there was a reproducing shape - so in our part of the size-range a DNA-strand which split in the middle and became two DNA-strands – the copy either survived or died.
2: The second rule is that the number of offspring has significance. That is to say: if you get one child or five children or ten children, there is a difference between those numbers – and in evolution it´s a benefit to have more children. One can also have zero children, and that is approximately like being dead.
Some would say that evolution´s meaning (the main task of life) is to make more offspring – that it´s the scientific meaning of life – Nature´s meaning: to reproduce. But I would answer that evolution makes more offspring (that´s reproduction) and making more offspring gives evolutionary benefits, but Nature itself does not care – it does not care about whether we nuke ourselves or not. There is no God that looks upon us and cares. Even reproduction becomes meaningless in the larger perspective. But in evolution it has significance whether one has zero offspring or ten offspring.
Rule number two (number of offspring matters) just as simple as rule number 1 (that there is life and death; that some live and some die).
The third rule that appered... – well all three rules appeared simultaneously directly when there was reproduction in this sizerange. The third rule is that:
3: There is mutation in every generation-shift. Things change. It doesn’t make perfect copies. Your child (if you have one) is not an exact copy of yourself or your wife – it’s a mutation; a change.
These three rules – 1: that there is life and death, the surviving survive. 2: That there are different nuances in the number of offspring. 3: That there is mutation in every generation-shift – these three rules came into play directly when the first reproduction occurred. We will return to these three rules over and over again; they are like laws of nature that like God says shall work on life directly when the first life reproduces itself. These laws of nature didn’t exist before the first life reproduced itself – they were not active then. They became active directly when there was reproduction.
These are abstract laws that we will manufacture, then we have the physical reality of that in a puddle of water a strand of DNA – a cell – made copies/offspring. Then viruses came into the game and injected its own DNA into the ordinary cells, that is to say: hijacked their reproductive system to create virus-offspring. If this would´ve continued the ocean would´ve been filled with only viruses, so there has to be some next step which made it so that our type of life survived. But the viruses added a 4
th
law (one of these abstract laws)
and that is: if you can hijack someone else’s reproductive system to create your own offspring; if you can inject your DNA into somebody else´s cell so that it creates viruses – I call this “power”. We will return to this word when we for example look at dinosaurs (they became bigger because the men killed each other to get the women whom make offspring). This power-principle was one that came after the three first ones.
The first cells reproduced and we had these three rules, then viruses came and injected their DNA and used “power” to produce more viruses. Then we get an immune-system which kills viruses i.e. protects the original organism´s reproductive system from being hijacked by viruses. So the immune-system evolved to take back the reproductive principle (2: the number of offspring matters); for the fact that one should retain the reproductive capability for oneself – so that no virus can take it over. So power has a lot to do with the number of offspring – principle 4 has a lot to do with principle 2.
We have multicellular organisms with immune-systems, we have viruses around them – and it´s an arms-race between that the viruses mutate to overcome the immune-system and the immune-
system mutates to overcome the virus. Thus we have an evolutionary pressure on mutating the immune-system as much as possible as fast as possible (because the viruses mutate very quickly), and the best way to do that is to combine genes from two different organisms: a man and a woman. So sex has its beginning in viruses.
If this doesn´t make you feel comfortable contemplate this: the truth outweighs positive-thinking. But does one want to remove whatever spreads joy among people? Those who want to defeat the religious violence in the world (I think religion is the biggest unnecessary cause of hatred in the world) – one cannot defeat that without defeating all religiousness simultaneously. To want to defeat one part of religion but not the rest of it is like voting for the Republicans and Democrats simultaneously – it´s just unreal. Sadly one must remove the good to remove the evil. Meditation still remains and one can get a kind of anxietylessness from some thoughts still but in the big picture there are no reasons that support them anymore – it´s just a brain-trick that one does.
In our evolutionary story we had an immune-system which mutates, wants more mutations – we get two genders. Then men begin to war with each other (because, metaphorically speaking, women can produce offspring once a year while men can produce it every day – we have an imbalance; asymmetry). Why is it always men that start wars? It began with the first fish – we had multicellular life in our story so far, so they became a bit bigger, could swim around – we get fish: it´s easier to find food then and easier to move around. Directly when there were two genders there was one fish which evolved to use its teeth for killing other male fish. The first aggressor of course got the most offspring because there were no other men around. That´s why men go to war: they can produce offspring with so many women while a woman has no benefit from having 1000 men.
There´s a caveat to
this once we get to caveman tribes/wolf-packs where a woman secretly wants many men to provide resources to her child, but at least in the era between fish and dinosaurs the picture was simply based on asymmetric reproductive rates.
So then the male fish grow more aggressive, the child who is the biggest and has the sharpest teeth kills the other male fish, has the most offspring; and in the next generation, again: the child with the most aggression and biggest muscles gets the most offspring – that´s how we get to dinosaurs and T-rex. We had males competing/fighting with each other and that´s why T-rex is so large. That is, again, the power-principle: just like viruses took over the reproductive system from the first cells, T-rex takes away the reproductive system from his rivals by killing them. So this principle number 4 (power) lives on – it has caused/causes so much: it causes the first viruses, it causes T-rex, that fish become aggressive, that we get two genders (by viruses getting power – so we wanted to counter that power by immune-systems i.e. two genders).
These dinosaurs then, just like humans don´t seem to have (sarcasm), any concept of preserving natural resources – so they would´ve eaten up all their trees and not had any food left. But on our planet it seems to have been a meteor-strike which wiped them out, but on exoplanets i.e. overall in this evolutionary series of evolutionary pressures causing various principles (first the three first principles, then the 4
th
principle, immune-systems, two-genderedness, bigger
fish, fights between the fish, dinosaurs). The dinosaurs ate their natural resources and all large life dies - so only small rat-like/squirrel-like life-forms live on.
The trees grow back up – we get monkeys.
Groups tend to, in a fight – if it´s a group against an individual (one against many) – the group tends to win. So we monkeys form groups, fighting together for food against individualists. The individualists lost.
So we got this - or had it from the get-go (just like with the first aggressors) – instinct that makes us want to be highest in the hierarchy and thereby get all the women. Power again. But this time it´s a kind of human power – we saw power when viruses took over the reproductive systems, we saw power when dinosaurs outcompeted their rivals (the men), we see power when a bully goes to the top of the hierarchy, pushes down the other men – and the women want the bully´s resources (he has the most stuff) so they´re attracted to him, so he gets the most offspring – out of his offspring the one that is best at getting power the one that gets most offspring.
The reason for why the brain grew so fast during the past 100 000 years was because we used the brain to plan for how to climb upward in the hierarchy. The reproductive benefits coming from being high-status in the hierarchy were so great comparing to being low-status that this put great selection-pressure on bigger brains.
Now we basically have caveman living in hierarchical societies, we have kings, aristocrats and slaves – and that is how the world was 5000 years ago. The kings build monumental architecture (pyramids and such). Then someone focused on a random word – so someone focused on what we talked about in part 1: Reality (that of which all is part) and realized one cannot see it (because we should be part of it, or the other two proofs for not being able to see all there is to Reality) and thus they invented the word God: it is one, one cannot see it – we have the dawn of monotheism.
Someone random-focused on the word “soul/self” too and realized one gets less anxiety by making a distinction between the body
one sees in ones imaginations
21.12
Author
yonis
Posted on
30/11/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Latest version of my book
Del 2: Evolutionsteorin
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/del2-interse-evolution.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
14/11/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Del 2: Evolutionsteorin
Lecture 4
lecture-4
Author
yonis
Posted on
10/11/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Lecture 4
Few pages (Var vi är – where we are; the existential theory)
Var vi är
Varje bok som försöker få med sig alla i att ha en enda världsbild bör börja med Descartes säkra sanning. I mitten av 1600-talet omgavs Rene Descartes av multipla ”hur gjorden skapades”-teorier, den mess påtalade för honom var den kristna ”jorden skapades på 6 dagar och Gud vilade på den 7e”. Descartes, enligt mig, var på ett ateistiskt spår i.om. att han tvivlade på alla de skapelsemyter som fanns runtomkring honom. Han var före sin tid i.om. att han både uppfann koordinatsystemet och ”cogito ergo sum” (”jag vet helt säkert att jag tänker och att jag finns”). Här har vi en man som klurade ur att hans egna existens är 100% säker att tro på, och han gjorde detta genom att kasta bort all kunskap som han inte var 100% säker på. Man kan antingen säga att han gjorde tankeexperimentet att han möjligtvis var en hjärna i en skål som matades med elektriska signaler så att den trodde att den hadde en kropp osv, eller att en allsmäktig demon lurade honom i allt han kan luras i, eller det som skedde i filmen The Matrix. Det som kvarstod var att hans ”jag” existerade eftersom att bli lurad innebär att existera; det finns någon som blir lurad för denna någon att bli lurad i allt han kan bli lurad i. Likaså finns tankevärlden eftersom [att bli lurad] är att tänka; tankar finns om de så är lurade eller inte. Alltså uppfann Descartes ”jaget existerar” och ”tanken existerar”. Detta kan utvidgas till att separation (mellan tanken och jaget) existerar; de är två separata ting. Nu har vi alltså jaget, tanken och separationen som helt säkra sanningar. Målet med denna bok är att övertyga alla om en enda världsbild (som står i konflikt med andra skapelseberättelser, Adam och Eva, osv), och hittills håller alla med om det som står gällande Descartes uppfinning. Den här boken är byggd så att vi går enligt logikens metoder, steg för steg, från Descartes säkra sanning till att förklara var vi är, vad vi är osv (de stora frågorna).
Från Descartes tre sanningar (inkl separation som är en av dem) kan man gå längs två spår: ena alternativet är att fråga sig vad motsatsen till separation är och definera den som ”det som allt är del av”. Andra alternativet är att rita det koordinatsystem Descartes uppfann med två axlar: storlek på ena axeln och tid på andra (ett storleks-tids-diagram). Båda vägar är direkta spinoffs från Descartes säkra sanning om att han tänker och han finns.
Om man frågar sig vad motsatsen till Descartes separation är, så blir svaret meningen ”det som allt är del av” där ordet ”det” bör bördan av att hänvisa till någonting som inkluderar allt. Ingen separation existerar i den – den är motsatsen till separation. Vi kommer återkomma till den i framtiden då vi frågar oss huruvida vi kan se/röra/percipiera den ifall observation är separation (och separation ej får finnas i den). I forntida skrifter kallades den ”Gud” eller ”Verkligheten” eftersom dess definition är ”det som allt är del av (inkl. Gud)”.
Vi har idén vars definitioner är ”motsatsen till separation” och ”det som allt är del av” och vi kan kalla den ”Gud”, ”Verkligheten” eller vad vi vill. I framtiden kommer vi härleda att vi inte kan se/observera/percipiera den som sådan (som dellös), så att ha ett ord för den är lite som när judarna vägrar säga ”yahwe” om sitt mest övergripande koncept. Att ha ett ord för den skapar bara förvirring eftersom vi är vana vid att se varje ord, men nu har vi ett koncept som vi i framtiden kommer härleda inte kan ses (eftersom observation är separation och vi ”försöker se” motsatsen till separation).
Det andra spåret som börjar direkt från Descartes är att rita ett Cartesiskt coordinatsystem med en vertikal axel och och horisontell axel: på den vertikala axeln representerar man storlek (kosmologi högst upp, människans storlek i mitten, kvantfysik längst ned) och på den horisontella axeln representerar man tid. Detta går att göra eftersom Descartes hittade separation dvs rum i vilken man kan rita abstraka diagram såsom storleks-tids-diagrammet. Allt man känner till har en storlek och en tid dvs passar in i någon punkt i det kvadratformade diagrammet.
Ur Descartes säkra sanning kan man alltså, via separation, fråga A) vad är motsatsen till separation?, och B) rita ett rektangulärt storleks-tids-diagram. Dessa A) och B) saknar funktion hittills, men kommer kombineras så att de bygger upp varandra.
Where we are
In the previous pages I contrast Einstein (the inventor of spacetime and energymass – and thus energymasspacetime as a synonym of Reality). With Descartes’ certain truth of self and separation between observer and object and object/thought. Einstein symbolizes intertwinedness/[the oneness of Reality]/[energymasspacetime as a single word/concept] or [God if you have that vocabulary]. Separation is the opposite of that wordless energymasspacetime; the jews call it Yahwe but don’t say the word because observation is separation and separation isn’t in observerless intertwinedness oneness / [opposite of separation]. We are in the observers’ realm inevitably (there are two realms: one which we are in by being thought-bound describers. And the other realm is needless to try to set words to, but E=mc2 did it by joining energymass and spacetime (c is spacetime/speed).
I also, in addition to putting Einstein and Descartes as opposites (opposing realms – we are in one realm), the first paper states that there is an existential theory (cosisting of three ideas). The three ideas are like points on a PowerPoint:
– separation and intertwinedness (that same intertwinedness we can’t see by being observers)
–	energymass with spacetime (E=mc2 connects them together; energymass is all movement and body, spacetime is the space your body occupies and time is the 4th dimension).
–	an infinite sizerange.
That the sizescale is infinite is like a court case with three (two major) arguments for that the sizescale is infinite:
–	with our human brain, that brain can notice the fact that it cannot see Reality/[that of which all is part]/the opposite of separation. Then ask whether there is a maximum or minimum size in that (I propose) infinite sizerange? It doesn’t make sense to ask for size nor maximum range because they’d have to be separate (period). Separate from anything. Separation itself makes a “maximum size” impossible.
–	but it might be different in the universe itself, so we ask the same question: does separation exist by there being a maximum/minimum size in our known sizescale (which ranges from cosmology, through astronomy, down to anatomy, cellular biology and quantum physics at the smallest known.
–	a third proof for that the sizerange is infinite, now having gone through both the subjective and the objective proofs, is the least convincting truth: that you can’t put yourself in front of you. Since what you are observing is supposed to include everything in it, you can’t possibly be outside it observing it. Again we repeat that opposition/separation/”outsideness” is not in the unseeable Reality (defined as energymasspacetime)/[that of which all is part].
A pseudo-mneumonic for remembering this is: that of which all is part (Reality) cannot be observed (because obserservation is separation). It proves that there is more to Reality than a brain, a computer or any other object can represent. Not even what the brain does: uses less matter (the flesh of the brain) to represent something like a galaxy (much more mass). In a thought experiment we can let the smallest known particle or bit of space, represent the largest known or more. The “more” is important because we are allowed to represent anything, even infinitey minus 1 much. There is more to Reality than can be contemplated.
Since Descartes certain truth lets us draw in the separation that is inevitably there (by virtue of lacking that intertwinedness we spent so many synonyms on already). We can draw both a world as we see it, or we can abstractly draw a size-time-diagram (Cartesian coordinate system – look how far ahead of his time his two great ideas would unite) with infinity-symbols at all four corner of the rectangle (the size-time-diagram is a rectangle – something for universal scientific merchendize).
Size-time justification exists between any two arbitrarily chosen points in time, or sizes in the size-range. There’s a size-time-reason for anything and everything that happens. The size-time-diagram has infinitely many points available because there is more than we can ponder i.e. the size-time-diagram is infinite.
Since we touched on Descartes and Einstein being opposites (in their ideas of course), how does one prove that ones theory is correct? It connects back to itself – if you are well enough to make the associations. For example: the infinity of the abstract space gives a natural intuition that this existential theory (here the sizerange, but it is connected to the two other ideas which hold the rest of the theory, namely evolution and the brain, on its foundation). The foundation is three ideas: separation-intertwinedness-opposition, energymass-spacetime unity and the proven fact that the sizescale is infinite. It can be drawn using infinity symbols given our limited brain and limited diagram to draw the infinity symbols in. Drawing on Descartes and Einstein we can prove why there is a sizescale – and time is also infinite, the Big Bang regenerating using logic. The logic is the following (without time/spacing in between):
– our universe expands as black holes remove energymass from 3-dimensional space (the curvature of space is infinite). When no more mass is present in our 3-dimensional space – and mass is needed for Einstein’s E=mc2 not to be absurd.
–	Emptienss with its laws of nature (including geometrical ones applying to mass and E=mc2) would be absurd if mass is mentioned in its laws but would’ve “be observed (as a ritual)”, i.e. the universe must summon mass if there is no mass in order for E=mc2 to remain true.
–	this obviously, since there are empty small spaces in our universe, applies to when there is complete emptiness i.e. when all star-system have swiwelled into the supermassive black hole in the galaxy center. There is in other words a long time of no place to bear life in the history of the universe; life exists only in the beginning and the vast majority of timespans between Big Bangs have as their only event black holes swallowing lifeless spacerocks and stars. The fuel in stars that result in supernovae will be reborn into new stars over and over again, but once only iron and other lifeless mass remains, there will be no fuel for new stars. After that comes the black holes swallowing all that used-to-bear-life mostly iron mass. That might take a while longer than there was life in the universe – the universe is after all not geared for life but generates it for a rational purpose: the sizescale is infinite (and of energymass in spacetime).
How do I prove this is how the size-axis re-creates a Big Bang every now and then? For one, since its “spacetime” and we drew infinity-symbols on our abstract size-time-diagram in every corner of the rectangle. Time and space, though different axises on our diagram, are united thanks to Einstein (into spacetime).
All this is rather more beautiful and complicated than “God created earth in 6 days and rested on the 7th” – its a totally different kind of creation story. It answers the Big Question: why are we? We have a three-idea existential theory part of which is the infinity of the sizerange; and we know there is more than we can contemplate i.e. the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all its 4 corners.
To some readers it seems like I´m preaching to the choir, but think of the debate still going on with people claiming the earth is 6000 years ago. Isn’t an infinite sizescale a more convincing creation story? It assumes there is “intelligence” in the cosmos just as there is logos in our perception, but as a creation story: present them with my current work and even as they tend to argue against, they will have to admit that the earth is not 6000 years old. The whole God-debate boils down to whether God is exactly synonymous with Reality/energymasspacetime/[that of which all is part]. We can through rationaly find the phrase/idea [that of which all is part] as useful, and once we welcome it into our vocabulary, God must be part of  [that of which all is part].
That of which all is part also is called energymasspacetime and a size-time diagram is the minimal you need to understand why we are.
Those who believe in God must have never heard the phrase [that of which all is part], and that all we know about this Reality fits in a size-time-diagram. [That of which all is part] is also the synonym for energymasspacetime/Reality, which’s existence is supported by three ideas: separation-intertwinedness, energymass-spacetime, an infinite sizescale.
The debate is between sentences like “God created the universe” versus my complex abstract theory. [That of which all is part] having a God outside it; an infinite sizescale with infinite time with a God outside it. I prefer God being a synonym for Reality. That’s Einstein’s God.
That leaves the Adam and Eve-story untouched as of yet, but having a reproducing shape in some size range in an infinite sizerange…
Author
yonis
Posted on
24/10/2016
28/10/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Few pages (Var vi är – where we are; the existential theory)
Posts navigation
Page
1
Page
2
Next page
Search for:
Search
Recent Posts
From Certain Truth to Dinosaurs (with Maan and Marwan)
War and Boredom
2 Nobel Prizes
V 2-4
Existential theory (2)
Recent Comments
Archives
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
Categories
Dagbok
Old
The book + diagrams
Trashcan
Trey
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.org
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Proudly powered by WordPress

Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen – A world-unifying world-view
Skip to content
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
A world-unifying world-view
From Certain Truth to Dinosaurs (with Maan and Marwan)
Author
yonis
Posted on
05/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on From Certain Truth to Dinosaurs (with Maan and Marwan)
War and Boredom
War-and-Boredom
26
War and Boredom (did you get bored of this book and thus let the world-view-differences-based wars continue?)
War and Boredom
The title of this book refers to that it is hard to get through this book. The reason why this new science (that I present in this book) hasn’t been discovered until I did is because part 1 of this book gives a sense of meaninglessness toward the Universe and part 2 deals with evolution in a depressing way because the main trend is “power”.
Writing it gave me anxiety and reading it gives many people anxiety.
But the question is: does everyone agree on it? If they do, that changes the Israel-Palestine-conflict where the parties of God are vetoing
regarding the borders of
the
“holy land”; it changes religious extremism and the wars fought over it. Religion is the biggest cause for hatred
in the world, as Hitchens said. My book
is
a minimalist theory
that
encompasses all one needs to understand
Everything: existence (why there is size itself) and
evolution – even thoughts about the future of humanity/evolution.
Even though there comes a sense of meaninglessness from knowing the existential theory and a sense of depression from knowing evolution, there is
a sense of
honor in having the right world-view.
Most importantly, the religious wars - ISIS/Israel/etc. - can be demolished by a world-view which everyone agrees on. War only continues because it is boring to learn and teach the course I present in this book. Hence the book´s name: War and Boredom, or: how boredom (toward science) keeps the wars continuing.
Not only can this book end wars, but it can unify people so that they feel more friendliness toward each other – science is a language and speaking the same language makes it easier to make friends. Having the same associations between concepts (a scientific world-view) gives people a lot to agree on, they´ll “speak the same language”.
If anyhow you get too bored to study further, there are three parts to this book (1: the existential theory, 2: evolution, 3: the dawn of religion), and they’re written with different styles. You may jump to either part directly.
Lecture 1
Descartes
One of the aims of this course is to get EVERYONE to agree so that they have the same associations between scientific concepts.
There is no other proper way to accomplish this goal than by starting with certain truth, which was found by Descartes in the 1600s. He lived in a time where they believed in demons, Gods etc. so he postulated a thought experiment where he assumed an almighty demon was fooling him in everything he could be fooled in: what would remain as certain truth – what could he not be fooled in?
If he was being fooled, where would still be a “he” (or self) there to be fooled, meaning that the self certainly exists. A self is necessary for a self to be fooled.
Descartes had thus concluded his own existence.
Being fooled is thinking – thus thought exists. “There is thought” Descartes concluded as certain truth. The word “fooling” represents a thought-process.
Descartes found the starting-position for any inquiry about truth: we can know certainly that thinker and thought exists.
Distinction exists (a logical conclusion from the above)
Looking at what we´ve found as certain truth so far “from above” (meta), we can take the next logical step – adding a third factoid to our 2-statement (A and B above) starting position: that there is distinction (
between
thinker and thought). The fact that thinker and thought are two separate entities concluded to be certain truth
s
through two
different
logical pathway
s
lets us conclude that “distinction exists”
. There are what Chinese philosophy calls “the ten thousand things” (referring to the world) – there are at least two (three if we include “distinction” as th
e third thing) certain entities, and empirically we know there are “ten thousand things” (not taking the number 10 000 literally but just referring to multiplicity).
First universal diagram
We can draw the thinker and thought and distinction between them as two dots with a line between them on a piece of paper (fig. 1).
Now we have something all religions agree on
– we´ve drawn up ideas and associations between them. Everyone ought to have the same associations (explanatory thoughts) between the concepts we´ve looked at so far.
We have, if you will – in figure 1 – a universal diagram.
Reality
We have the capability to conglomerate many separate entities under the rubric of a single category. If we use this capability to collect the “ten thousand things” (distinct entities) we´ve found so far into a single thing, we ought to give that thing a word/name. Its definition can be “that of which all is
part” and “the opposite of separation/distinction”. I will use the word Reality to refer to this all-encompassing thing.
In lecture 2 I will present three proofs for that “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, but for now we can draw (adding to figure 1) a dot with a cross over it – the cross to symbolize that the dot itself is a false representation of Reality because we (the observer/self/thinker) should be part of that dot. See fig 2.
Thinking about what we´ve got so far
Thinking about what we´ve got so far (fig. 2) it’s a bundle of associations which make universal inter-religious (all religions agree on it) knowledge with both words and pictures.
In the next lecture I present why the line in fig 2 (see fig 3) represents the opposition/antagonism/disagreement/contraposition/divergence/variance between the two sides of the paper; between “thinker and thought” on one side of the paper and “Reality (that of which all is part; the opposite of separation)” on the other side of the paper.
Worth noting now is that the left side of the paper represents separation/distinction whilst the right side of the paper represents the opposite of separation/distinction – both are legitimate ideas: thinker and thought – and distinction – is certain truth based on Descartes and we all know which idea we refer to when talking about the all-encompassing [that of which all is part] Reality.
In the next lecture we will talk about why the line in fig. 3 makes it so that we can´t see Reality – I will present three proofs like in a crime case, and we will talk about what we can see if we can´t see Reality.
Making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far
1
See fig. 1 again: it´s our starting-point and the thinking that occurs in it happens in Descartes “realm of mind”; it is the mind´s realm (the left side of the paper) in which the thinking happens, and one thing we talk about is Reality on the right side of the paper in fig 3. Since the line in fig. 3 represents both the legitimacy of the ideas on both sides of the paper, and simultaneously the opposition between separation/distinction (on the left side of the paper) and [the opposite of separation/distinction] on the right side of the paper. That opposition is important and I will show its significance in lecture 2.
2
Starting from Descartes realm (of if you will: assuming that all we know is what we know for certain), we have the capability to state that there is a single Reality of which all is part – so even though we see separation we must grant that that separation (all entities) fits into a category we call Reality. There is a unifying whole even though the human mind (Descartes realm) is limited in its ways when it tries to contemplate Reality.
Not only is there the map-territory distinction (which will be presented as one out of three proofs in lecture 2), but there is also a more fundamental opposition between distinction and its opposite (there is a more fundamental opposition between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3). Not only are we stuck in the map-territory-distinction-realm but we also can conclude that no representation (regardless of the mind) is equal to Reality (on a more fundamental level than the map-territory-problem).
Representation is done in the brain using neurons and in a computer using electrons, but there is no reason why the most distant atom or quark couldn´t be proposed to be a symbol for [that of which all is part] – and even in that brainless scenario we will see in lecture 2 that “that of which all is part cannot be represented”. The map-territory-distinction is just proof/evidence number two in lecture 2 (for that we cannot see Reality and thus, since we do see/represent something, there must be more to Reality than can be represented i.e. the size-time-diagram (presented in lecture
2) is infinite along both axes.
Proof 3 in lecture 2 removes the brain from the equation and still proves that there is more to Reality than can be seen/represented/symbolized (using any means/any method – even without a brain), and since some representation is obviously (since we know that there are minds) possible, there must be more than can be represented/contemplated i.e. the size-axis is infinite and the time-axis is infinite in that two-axis diagram.
3
Both sides of the paper in fig. 3 are legitimate ideas. But still they are opposites (separation on one side and the opposite of separation on the other side). How can two derived-from-logic sides of the
paper be opposites but still both be legitimate?
Usually opposition – like between Democrats and Republicans – means that one is right and the other is wrong; they can´t both simultaneously be right: you can´t meaningfully vote for both parties at the same time.
The case is different between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3: both sides are right and they are opposites.
There is a single Reality and there is multiplicity in distinction.
What does this mean? That there is more to the size-time-diagram than anything could represent – any representation fails (you can think of some examples/suggestions for how to represent [that of which all is part]/[the opposite of separation]) – and thus the axes on the size-time-diagram are infinite. This is a hither to unpresented fact in science – it is new science: some of the best scientists ignorantly believe that the size-range is limited/finite.
4
We have quite a few associations and symbols in fig. 3 which must be agreed upon, and here I´m using the word “must” in the sense that “by the rules of logic X must be true”. Other civilizations throughout the infinitely many galaxies there are use the exact same ideas (but in a different language) and have the same associations between them (that there are infinitely many galaxies is derived from that the size-axis in the size-time-diagram is infinite). There is distinction as the third truth to be added to Descartes two fundamental truths (thinker and thought exist), and all that is opposed to (on the other side of the paper in fig. 3) to the all-encompassing Reality which is defined using at least two definitions: that of which all is part and the opposite of separation.
I´m tri-lingual but I write the same ideas and associate them in the same ways no matter which language I write in – its universal science beginning from certain truth. On other planets that have civilizations my writings in this book ought to match up quite near to the writings creating the same lecture series based on universal science that I´m creating
– “alien”/exo-planet
lecture series proceed, beginning from certain fact, through logical steps as I do.
5
[Thinker and thought] (certain truth) and thus distinction/separation are associated through negation/opposition to the right side of the paper in figure 3: Reality. The left side is not the right side just like separation is not its opposites. Both being legitimate ideas, though, connects them in the way that thinker and thought (and all other distinct entities) are in the category Reality.
Even though Reality and distinction are opposites, distinction dwells in (as a sub-entity within the category) Reality.
The associations between the left and right sides of the paper in figure 3 are both united through the notion “opposition” and through the notion that distinction is inherent in Reality (Reality being the opposite of distinction
because we have all-encompassing and its opposite: composite parts).
6
It is certainly true that all is part of a single Reality; but it is equally true that in every observation there is an observer and hence distinction (between thinker and thought). We see separate entities is as true as that the self that we are is not in front of us – but everything we see (thought/object) is in front of us.
That is evidence 1 in lecture 2 (not a proof, but a mere suggestion/evidence that [that of which all is part cannot be observed] and thus there is more to Reality than our concept of [infinitely
much].
All we know about Reality has two properties: a size and a time. Size and time are two axes on a diagram, and thus all we know fits into the size-time-diagram (every object or location in space has a size and time).
There is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram because all suggested representors for Reality fail
(for three reasons taken up in lecture 2).
7
All
bundles of associations in this chapter “making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far”
are written in order to create some universal brain structures (universal because science is the same everywhere (on all exo-planets), and their brains make the same associations too eventually). It´s not some random bundle of associations nor did I randomly present random ideas.
I assume the brain structure created by understanding this book is a replica of something derived from science; a replica of brain structures on the infinitely many other civilization-bearing planets. It´s a universal “ideology”, if you will.
Everyone has a possibility of sharing it in agreement – and future lectures will add a whole lot of complexity to it; agreement tends to build friendship so study is a way of bringing more peace to the world.
Once the full world-view is presented throughout this book, it´s a way of pacifying the world.
8
We have two brain-halves: one linguistic and one visual. So far we´ve both drawn pictorial representations and connected words – both brain-halves have been working. The connections across corpus collosum (which sits between the brain-halves and connects them) that connect a linguistic narrative/explanation to the pictorial representations are one day found in all humans thanks to science. Our brains are becoming more as science has a propensity to make them be.
This course itself, since it begins with certain truths and builds upon it logically, is a universal course (to the best of my ability).
The brain cells that constitute the negation (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 3) or opposition are not the same kind of cells (they are inhibitory neurons) that connect thinker with though as both being certain truths (but the thinker is not the thought and thus has inhibitory cells making that brain-structure work too
(what you are is not in front of you;
what you are is not visible).
Since both Reality and [what you are]/self/observer/thinker are invisible the brain might erroneously and spontaneously try to associate them, so a brain-structure is needed to inhibit that association (and replace it with a more complex explanation). That spontaneous but erroneous association is something all thinking animals throughout the universe evolved to do, and the inhibition of it through culture/civilizing/science is universally available within complex enough civilizations throughout the universe.
As you can see the brain structures responsible for doing this thing are quite complex, but also universal and thus accessible to all humans, and predictably will someday be in all humans (fostering agreement, thus friendship, thus peace).
Lecture 2
Perceive, apprehend, notice are synonyms for our representing ability, but I will use the word “see” or “observe” to refer to all of these. The goal of this lecture is to prove the statement “that of which
all is part cannot be observed”, Reality being defined as “that of which all is part”. In other words: we cannot see Reality, and thus there is more to Reality than even can be contemplated (i.e. infinitely much).
I will build this lecture like a criminal court case: I will present three proofs for that we cannot see Reality i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated i.e. (since we can contemplate anything (right or wrong)) Reality is infinite.
Since anything/everything we know about Reality has some size and time, it fits into a size-time-diagram. See fig. 4.
In fig. 4 size is represented along the vertical axis and time along the horizontal axis. The objects humans see in everyday life (from the horizon to a single cell as one “pixel” in our visual field) are marked in “the human range”.
See fig 5.
In fig. 5 I´ve drawn the same diagram as in fig. 4 but this time with infinity-symbols in each corner of the squareical size-time-diagram. Two infinite axes become a square.
Proof number 3 in our “court case” for proving that the size-time-diagram (Reality) is infinite has us imagine the unobservable separatenessless Reality and ask whether there is a maximum or minimum size to/in it (a maximum/minimum being separateness while we are talking about the opposite of separation). This is again to confirm that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes.
The line we drew in fig. 4 was for separating the two sides of the paper; opposing “thinker and thought” (distinction) with its opposite: one all-encompassing non-distinction Reality. That opposition-line is what this lecture is about since it proves that the two sides of the paper are separate/opposing realms and we are stuck in one realm as long as we are observers (because observation is separation/distinction (thinker and thought)).
Proving that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes is new science because it poses the question: what happened before the Big Bang (14 billion years ago), and it presents one pillar of our existential theory: that each size is the reason for each next and previous size, and the size axis is infinite, meaning the “beginning” of the relationship between sizes keeps retreating into infinity the more we contemplate the range of the size axis.
When I presented fig. 4 for the first time I drew a cross over the dot symbolizing Reality for the plain reason that we (as observers) should be part of that dot, and by the very nature of us being separate (and the dot representing the opposite of separation) we should draw a cross over it symbolizing that we cannot see it.
The main proof though is that even if all observers were dead there´d still be, inherent and fundamental in nature, the opposition between distinction and distinction´s opposite (the two sides of the paper in fig. 4). The line is an opposition-line and it is more fundamental than being dependent on humans/observers – it refers to all representation whether it’s using/including humans or not. I am, in other words, not talking about the map-territory distinction (which symbolizes that humans have mental maps and not the real world per se; like Kant said: we have “the thing” and not “the thing itself”). Proof 2 – the opposition-line between the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 – is not subjective: it is true that we live with the map-territory-distinction but even if I died there´d still be separate things (chairs separate from cups), that kind of separation is not dependent on me/observers. Simultaneously the flipside of the coin (the other side of the paper in fig. 4) is true too: all is one single Reality (the opposite of separation). Proof 2, in other words, should not be interpreted as signifying the map-territory distinction (human subjectivity) but instead a fundamental opposition in the universe.
If we do not see Reality, then what do we see? Everything we see fits into the size-time-diagram, and since the opposition-line in fig. 4 shows that there is a fundamental rule that states, in 3 different proofs, that Reality is infinite / there is more than can even be contemplated / there is more than even non-subjective representation can represent.
Proof number 1 is really weaker than a “proof” – it´s more like evidence. It wouldn´t hold up in a court but it is a way of stating what the other proofs too point towards. Proof 1 is what we saw when presenting figure 4: any dot representing Reality is an incorrect representation because the observer should be part of the object – the thinker should be part of the thought. It denies Cartesian
separation and thus is untrue, meaning that anything we draw on the right side of the paper in fig. 4 is incorrect.
We can contemplate anything: we can speculate about what´s smaller than quantum physics, or even what´s smaller than that, etc. into infinity. We are probably wrong, but any contemplation/representation counts as a contemplation – and since we know that, whether right or wrong as our contemplations may be, there is more to Reality than can be contemplated, it follows that there must be infinitely much to Reality. Since all we know about Reality fits into a size-time-diagram, the minimalist approach is to state that it´s the size-time-diagram that is infinite.
This warrants two new words: the knowable/known size-range and the infinite size-range. The knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range. Since Einstein unified space (size) and time, one cannot be infinite without the other one being the same. Science today doesn´t know whether there was a “before” to the Big Bang or not (whether time was created at the Big Bang), but now we know that the Big Bang is just an event on an infinite time axis. In a future lecture we will talk about how/why the Big Bang recreates (happens over and over).
We talked about universal diagrams (and universal brain-structures) in lecture 1. The size-time-diagram is one major universal diagram. A lot of detail can be added to it because all fields of science fit into it. The infinity-symbols on each axis of the squareical diagram are drawn, based on science, on exo-planets with advanced enough civilizations.
This lecture is about proving that [that of which all is part] (the opposite of separation) i.e. Reality cannot be observed/represented, and that this fact is true irrespective of whether we are observers or dead, and applying this to the size-time-diagram (which gets its infinity-symbols into the squareical diagram).
Proof number 2 (the main proof) is the oppositional approach between Reality and distinction, and it is not subjective because Reality and Reality´s opposite exist even if we were dead. Proof number 3 is about imagining (even though no imagination is it) Reality as a big gray (because energymass is white and spacetime is black) solid, in which we know no observer should be (because observation is separation) – does it have separation i.e. a biggest and a smallest size? No, because such distinctions are not in the opposite of distinction (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 4).
I´ve mentioned universal associations in the brain / exo-planet science, so talking about the size-time-diagram we can add more universal notions to it: why did I draw upwards on the size axis as larger and downward as smaller? Why is the time-axis horizontally drawn instead of vertically? The diagram works even if we would define the vertical axis as time and the horizontal axis as size – so why do we draw size vertically and time horizontally? Is it universal i.e. on other planets or just a human convention like writing from left to right in English-speaking countries and right to left in Arabic-speaking countries?
Evolution has it so that during the history of science telescopes look upward and microscopes look downward. This would be the case on other planets too: they turn their heads upward to see the large and downward (onto a table) to see the small; the opposite can´t be true on any planet. Thus
we get the size axis´ standard (of upward being larger) from evolution / the history of science. I use the word “standard” because it comes from evolution rather than being more fundamentally hard-wired into the universe such as the fact that the size-time-diagram is a square with infinity symbols. That the size-time-diagram is a square is not a standard – it is something stronger than that. The fact that we represent time on the vertical axis (and upward as larger) comes from a weaker source: tradition (even though that same tradition is true on all planets; evolution, in this regard, happens the same on all planets that end up with civilizations).
We thus have added standards or weak conventions (derived from history) in addition to having strong diagrams like the size-time-diagram being a square. The distinction between the two is made based on science and is thus made on exo-planets.
Scientists are looking for exo-planets that bear civilizations. If the size-range is infinite – as we´ve proven that it is – then each particular size (like the human range in fig. 5) is infinite too; if the largest is infinitely large then there is, considering the size of a human, an infinite distance in any direction that that human could find itself in. This makes civilizations on other planets a must, not an assumption. The known/knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range, and within the known size-range there is a range in which evolution occurs (between the smallest cells and the biggest organisms), and since we´ve proven that there are infinitely many objects within/of that size-range, then there must be infinitely many locations in which evolution occurs.
In the next lecture we will bind together the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 (distinction and distinction´s opposite; “thinker and thought” opposing Reality) with E=mc
2
(energymasspacetime) and with the infinity of the size-time axes, into a single existential theory which is a rival to “God created earth in 6 days…” The existential theory is a minimalist account for why there is a sizescale in the first place, and why there is something (energymass) rather than nothing (spacetime). It reminds me of this passage: “HITCHENS: In other words, as the great physicist Laplace said when he demonstrated his working model (his orrery, as it’s called) of the solar system to the emperor and Napoleon said, “Well I see there’s no God in this system,” and Laplace said, “Well, Your Majesty, it works without that assumption.””
In this chapter I´ve presented three proofs for that the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in it i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated; we do represent something but however we choose to represent (even representations that can be proposed as thought-experiments if we were dead) we do not represent Reality i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality. Are there any counter-arguments saying that the size-time-diagram is finite? I built this lecture like a court case and I´d like to hear the opposing side. There are no arguments that oppose what I´ve proven so far.
Lecture 3
E=mc
2
E=mc
2
as an equation is only used in relativistic scenarios such as very high speed or very high energy, but since speed is a continuum the equation is true at slower speeds. There is a difference between the equation being applicable (being needed while solving equations) and it being true; it is always true everywhere but it is not needed for equations except in special scenarios.
An example of the equation being true everywhere and always is this: nuclear power-plants turn mass (kilograms) into energy (joule), so that if you input 1 kg of uranium-mass you get out 99.9999 kg of waste products – some of the mass turned into energy which lights our light-bulbs. The atoms that lost some weight (that weight was converted into energy) are atoms just like other kinds of atoms, for example in autumn leaves. If you´d drop leaves into the core of the sun, the sun´s nuclear furnace would turn mass in the leaves into energy (light). Hence all objects are subject to the E=mc
2
-rule, which states that energy (E) equals mass (m). This warrants the word energymass because they are no longer two distinct things – they are but different manifestations of the same thing. In the brain energymass should be a single idea whilst the concepts “energy and mass” refers to two different forms of a single idea.
Verbs and adjectives tend to refer to energy (shining, running, etc.) while nouns refer to mass (body, tree, etc.) E=mc
2
states that the two (verbs/adjectives and nouns) are together in a single equation. Although only applicable in relativistic scenarios (the role of relativism becomes close to zero in everyday human events, except that our light-bulbs shine because mass turns into energy and the sun can makes leaves into light), E=mc
2
is in a “philosophical” sense true everywhere and always just like Pythagoras’s theorem about triangles remains “philosophically true” even where there are no physical triangles. You wouldn´t say 1=1 is not true in empty space just because there are no objects there to count as “1”.
In addition to energymass being a single concept (and not two distinct ones), spacetime gets added into the mix by the c
2
-part of the equation. c is the speed of light (km/h) and thus a distance (space) over time – spacetime! Energymass (E=m) and spacetime (c
2
) should in the brain be represented by a single idea which we can call energymasspacetime. This harkens back to the previous lectures about Reality, which is a synonym for energymasspacetime. Einstein invented the equation E=mc
2
and thus unified in it energymass with spacetime – and synonyms for energymass are “existence” or “1” while synonyms for spacetime are “non-existence”, “emptiness”, “nothing” and “zero”. There is no more to be considered regarding Reality than energymasspacetime; energymasspacetime involves everything (energymass) and nothing (spacetime) so there is nothing more to be considered/added to Reality – Reality is energymasspacetime; everything is included into Reality once we have defined Reality as energymasspacetime.
The Existential Theory
Each culture seems to have a creation myth (such as genesis) – the creation of the cosmos/world/Reality is something humans have invented hypotheses for during millennia. The stories answer the question “why are we here?”
The true answer is unintuitive. First of all: why is there any particular size? What justifies, say, the size of a molecule? The answer is: the smaller and the larger (the rest of the size-range). Atoms justify a molecule and a molecule exhibits a place for atoms to live in: justifies atoms. Humans need an earth to dwell on (the earth is larger) and humans are made of cells (cells are smaller). Each size bears a relationship upon each other size – the smaller justify the larger and the larger justify the smaller. Since the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all four corners of the square (because of the proof where we had two sides of a paper), the size-range is infinite i.e. the pattern of justification between/amongst sizes continues into the infinitely large and infinitely small. What the ancients called “the first cause” keeps retreating into infinity size-wise the more we contemplate it. The size-range is like a fractal: you can keep zooming in or out infinitely much, and the question “why is there this particular object that I see” has its answer in the relationship between all the sizes: justification. Infinite justification is the reason why there is a size-range at all. But there is more that is needed for a full-fledged existential theory: two more factors play their roles.
Spacetime is emptier than we can imagine/represent it. We (and all representeurs) are energymass and thus are the opposite of spacetime. We could let a piece of empty space represent spacetime, but as soon as we use energymass (such as our brains) to do so, we´ve lost the truly empty nature of spacetime: it is unimaginably empty. Any bundle of neurons, no matter how we wire it, is still the opposite of what they want to represent when they want to present us with spacetime. It is therefore useful to have two concepts for spacetime: (1) our simplest intuition of spacetime and (2) additional defining language explaining that spacetime is emptier than (1). This is how exoplanet civilizations would wire their brains regarding the concept “spacetime” too, just because it’s the most accurate science they can manage.
Just like energy and mass are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon, energymass and spacetime are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon. What does it mean for spacetime to be bundled together with (intertwined with) energymass? Everything exists as/in/because of nothing; 1 exists in 0; energymass and spacetime are together in the E=mc
2
-equation. Where could energymass/existence exist? In nothingness. Just like sizes justify one another, spacetime justifies energymass.
The last question that remains, after we have justification between sizes in an infinite size-range, and that all points in the size-time-diagram are made of energymasspacetime (and energymass is justified by it being in spacetime), is the objective fact that there both is a single Reality (the right side of the paper) and there´s its opposite: distinction (between, say, thinker and thought).
The existential theory builds on three “pillars”/fundamental ideas:
An infinite sizescale,
Energymasspacetime as in the equation E=mc
2
Distinction between distinction itself and distinction´s opposite (see fig. 1, 2, 3):
Between distinction (the left side of the paper, our 2 certain truths: I exist and there is thought) and Reality (the opposite of distinction; one Reality (not plural)) there is a line that demarcates distinction/opposition.
Putting it all into one phrase we might say: “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime with opposition between distinction and Oneness”. At its core it´s three ideas (infinite size-time-diagram, energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
), separation and intertwinedness (the two sides of the paper)). On exoplanets they would state their reason for their own existence using these three ideas too, because taken together they explain all that needs to be explained: first thing that comes to mind is that in the stated existential theory there must be a reproducing shape (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape; a DNA-strand) somewhere. If the size-time-diagram has
infinity symbols in all three corners, then evolution ought to occur somewhere (and be made of energymass in spacetime, while being separate/distinct in a single intertwined Reality).
Most creation-myths have a quite simple (one-pillared) and mundane story: for example genesis just states that God created Reality (that of which all is part) in 6 days and rested on the 7
th
. The scientific rival to all such creation stories is a three-pillared theory – we can´t make it any simpler (we can´t make it one-pillared) and the same would be the case on exoplanets: they too can only break it down to three interconnected ideas/pillars/fundaments, so in thinking this way we share a common intellectual history with exoplanet civilizations advanced enough to figure out this existential theory.
On a test on this subject a question might be: “what are the three pillars of the existential theory?” – the question can´t be “what is the most important pillar in the existential theory?” All pillars are equally important but constitute as distinct ideas as E=mc
2
is from infinite size, or the separation-intertwinedness-opposition (fig. 3).
This three-pillared creation story – the sum of these three chapters – is built upon logic: it includes certain truths like “I think and I exist” (distinction/separation), its opposite (Reality for which we have three proofs for that it can´t be observed/seen/contemplated i.e. the size-time-diagram is infinite), E=mc
2
which unifies nothing/spacetime with existence/energymass, and the relationship between any two sizes (justification along the infinite size-range). Every one of these ideas relates very closely to Descartes´ certain truth, meaning we can be sure of the ideas themselves – and they together build up a minimalist existential theory which needs no further logic to explain everything there is.
Having an infinite size-range has a predictive quality to it too – it makes a prediction: there ought to be evolution (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar mass) somewhere in the diversity we see throughout even the known size-range.
Though as non-intuitive as the 3-pillar existential theory may be to our evolved brains who want a single conclusion, exoplanet civilizations have the same limits and biases as us: they too are stuck with three pillars in a single theory to make the theory explainable. Science is creating universal (exoplanet) neural pathways in our brains. We should embrace the fact that by being non-intuitive but true, this science wires our brain based on science and thus universally. It is the way (the wiring) that all planets are headed to if they´re into science. It´s a universal world-view. We´re thinking like aliens.
In current scientific debates the religious will argue that faith (in a dogma) is needed to (what they call) “understand” the existence of the universe. If confronted with my theory (these lectures) they´d have to agree that logic makes their God unnecessary as a pillar of creation. In the best case scenario God is simply a synonym for Reality (because Reality is “that of which all is part” and thus God ought to be part of it too, and all we know about Reality is that it is energymass in spacetime and separation in intertwinedness).
Having an explanation – the negative side of it is it being three-pillared and unintuitive, the positive side of it being that it accounts for all of Reality and predicts evolution – further justifies the saying “a God of the gaps” (meaning the more we understand the less we need God). Now all that remains to be understood – again in an unintuitive but identical to exoplanets -way – is how, on an infinite time-
line, the Big Bang (denseness) recreates and fades away into sparseness (black holes removing energymass and dark energy creating more space until no galaxies are anymore visible).
Lecture 4
The beginning of the Big Bang
I have a hard time imagining how the universe can reach complete emptiness, but it wouldn´t be the first time the universe´s nature surpasses human intuition. In the history of science stars were observed to not move relative to one another on the night sky, and this was argued to prove that the size of the universe was much smaller than the now known size – it was argued that the universe would be “unreasonably big” if the stars didn´t seem to move relative to one another as the earth moved because they were so far away.
If only enough time is needed for the universe to become empty, then we get the starting scenario which is most reasonable: we start with emptiness (spacetime). Again, spacetime is emptier than our concept for it because we (and our concepts) are made of energymass.
If you move your hand one meter (from position 1 to position 2), the laws of nature that make your hand make sense were already in place in the space of position 2 before you moved your hand there. It´s not like the universe/spacetime was absurd in location 2 and only started to make sense regarding hands when you moved your hand there. We do not impact the laws of nature in such ways; instead the laws of nature are simultaneously and equally true at all locations and all times. In other words: Pythagoras’s theorem is true even in locations where there are no objects whatsoever, but the theorem is only applicable (to be applied) to triangles. In empty space there are no objects and thus no triangles, but Pythagoras´s theorem is true there anyhow – it does not suddenly become true (switch from being untrue to true) when a triangle is imagined or physically moved there. This applies to E=mc
2
too, which is just as much of a law of nature as Pythagoras´s theorem. E=mc
2
is true everywhere and always, though humans only apply (use) the equation in certain scenarios. Where triangles can be (in spacetime) there is also E=mc
2
. Laws of nature are fundamental and inherent in spacetime and do not come about depending on events (though our application/use of any particular equation is dependent on which event we´re analyzing).
There is distinction between the practical use of equations (to solve problems or understand a phenomenon) and the core nature of spacetime having laws of nature in it. Spacetime is a no-nonsense spacetime – we live in a rational (laws of nature-abiding) universe.
One law being E=mc
2
and another one being “if it is said it must exist” (meaning energymass can´t be mentioned in the laws of nature of spacetime without energymass existing), we get spacetime to summon energymass if the starting-point was complete emptiness. “If energymass is mentioned it must be summoned” (it is mentioned in E=mc
2
) is true because it would be a nonsense universe if it “talks” about energymass without there being any – just infinite space for eternity with laws of nature regarding energymass, but never any energymass appearing/being present. It would be a
nonsense universe if energymass it mentioned but never exists. It would be akin to the universe telling lies (having all these rules like E=mc
2
but never applying them to anything), or the universe babbling gibberish (having inapplicable laws of nature).
Thus, E=mc
2
being a core property of spacetime itself and the “no gibberish”-rule applying, energymass must logically be summoned – but how and where? Extremely dense i.e. everywhere, in the smallest spaces, simultaneously. Why? Our starting-point is spacetime, which needs no prior justification because it is the opposite of existence: it doesn´t exist – it is emptier than our neurons make it out to be. In it Einstein´s theory of relativity is true, meaning that there is no center point (or in other words: all points are the center) so there is no center to the Big Bang. Another way of seeing it is that as soon as there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification), E=mc
2
became true in all locations (in the smallest spaces) simultaneously – no point in space was before another in having E=mc
2
be true in it. Spacetime having E=mc
2
as a core property has E=mc
2
be true everywhere simultaneously; once we have the launching-condition of empty spacetime, through E=mc
2
, energymass is summoned everywhere simultaneously.
This “everywhere” is all things within an event horizon, meaning that things moving away faster than the speed of light (due to dark energy/accelerating cosmic expansion) are not within our event horizon: they are not part of what can be reasonably called “our 3-dimensional space” (from our location). Things are not part of our universe once their speed hits faster than the speed of light – and many locations, within the boundaries of their respective event horizons, will one day have all energymass moving away from them at speeds faster than the speed of light (this is just the observed fact of accelerating cosmic expansion). Such a finite space with no energymass within its event horizon (all energymass moving away faster than the speed of light) would constitute “completely empty space” i.e. our starting-point for the Big Bang (energymass being summoned due to E=mc
2
).
Consider an infinite size-range - it is made of energymasspacetime: if we draw it as the Y-axis on a diagram, there can´t be a region/length in it (such as the knowable size-range) which is completely empty forever. See fig. 6.
Because of the rules E=mc
2
and “if it is mentioned it must be summoned”/”no-nonsense universe” are true throughout the infinite size-range, there can´t be a region with just spacetime (with its laws of nature) because the laws of spacetime mention energymass; spacetime is inherently tied to and intertwined with energymass – existence and non-existence go together (at all sizes). There would be no logical breaking-point (a particular size) where energymasspacetime transitions into being just spacetime for a range of sizes and then transitions back into energymasspacetime; there is no logical breaking-point where the implications of E=mc
2
(the implication being: energymass and spacetime are in the same equation) stop to be true. The transition seen in fig. 6 is impossible (there is no “empty region”). Having an empty region would be akin to zooming into the decimals of pi and seeing no numbers for a specific array of decimals: 3.14159ÄÄÄÄ265359... The Ä´s can´t be there: it´s a continuous sequence of decimal numbers. There is no break/”empty region” in the continuous decimals of pi just as there is no region of the size-range that can be empty of energymass.
In this chapter I´ve written something akin to “
first
there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification unless you consider that the size-axis of the size-time-diagram is infinite),
then
there was E=mc
2
,
then
there was energymass summoned into the smallest spaces available (available = considered to be within an event horizon and empty)”. This harkens back to previous lectures´ talk about “alien logic” (how exoplanets think). To have it make sense to our brains we use the time-distinctions “first, then and then” but the real distinction is not in time but in steps in a sequence of logic. In other words all the mentioned steps happened simultaneously to start the Big Bang: E=mc
2
was true as soon as there was spacetime, and as soon as there was that, energymass appeared as not to make the universe absurd (by it talking gibberish or it having an empty region like in fig. 6).
The end of the Big Bang
Telescopes observe that “space is being born” i.e. that the distances between clumps of energymass (galaxies) are getting larger, and at an accelerating pace too. Not only does the Hubble law state that an object a
million light
-
years
away would be receding from us at 21 km/sec and at double the distance twice the speed, but the law states that that speed (for example 21 km/sec a million light years away) is increasing. This is called accelerating cosmic expansion. It means that from our galaxy, when/if we look into the sky trillions of years in the future, we´d see no trace of any other galaxy let alone the cosmic microwave background (because their speeds have passed the speed of light and thus went beyond the event horizon). Once that object a million light years away from us which today is racing away at 21 km/sec reaches 299792 km/sec (the speed of light), it will pass from being within our event horizon to being outside our sphere of events.
This empties our universe or as Hitchens put it: “nothingness is coming”. Once that nothingness comes we have our starting point where we run through the logic of E=mc
2
–> “if it is mentioned it must exist/be summoned” (in order for the universe not to talk gibberish or the infinite size-range not to have a break in it) –> energymass begins as dense (because of relativity and because E=mc
2
is true everywhere simultaneously/equally).
We observe that nothingness (within event horizons) is coming, and beginning from nothingness there is unintuitive logic that has a predictive quality to it: the Big Bang should start dense. This theory works well with lecture 2´s proofs for that “there is more to Reality than can be represented”
(the size-time-diagram is infinite) because size is essentially space, and space and time are intertwined into a single spacetime – hence: if size/space is infinite then time must be infinite too. In other words we have reoccurring Big Bangs interspersed along the time-axis of our size-time-diagram. As soon as a region bound by an event horizon becomes empty we have the universe´s no-nonsense-laws kicking in and E=mc
2
summons energymass (in the smallest sizes that are empty equally/simultaneously).
The sequence of consecutive Big Bangs´ beginnings (emptiness leading to energymass being summoned) and ends (accelerating cosmic expansion speeding things past a point´s event horizon and emptiness being summoned) are as infinite as the time-axis proved to be based on lecture 2´s proofs. Proving (in lecture 2) that spacetime is infinite fits perfectly with the reoccurring Big Bangs (when somethingness becomes emptiness and then emptiness summons somethingness).
There will in other words, between the beginning of a Big Bang and the end of that same Big Bang, be life within the conscious/human size-range (the different locations of that size already being infinitely many, see fig. 4).
Each size along the size-axis is defined as “3-dimensional infinite space” meaning there is infinitely much life with access to universal science (i.e. some version of this lecture-series), and within our region (bound by an event horizon) there is life between the beginning and end of Big Bangs. In addition I have hard to believe that a reproducing shape (and thus evolution) only occurs in only
one
size-range (the, for humans, knowable size-range) in an infinite size-range: there ought to be many sub-size-ranges as part of the infinite size-range where evolution occurs and can reach scientific knowledge. All life mentioned above, if they reach scientific understanding, would concur on the existential theory presented in these lectures (especially lecture 3 – the three pillars/foundations/ideas which together become a minimalist theory for why there is the infinite size-range of energymasspacetime in the first place).
This is not only exoplanet science – it is science between Big Bangs and it is science in regions of the size-axis far away (in size) from our knowable size-range. See fig. 7.
Summary
First we looked at Descartes’ ”thought exists” and ”the self exists”, claimed that it was two valid statements and pointed out the distinction between them. On the other side of the paper we wanted to represent anti-distinction (the opposite of distinction) defined as “that of which all is part” (Reality), and realized that since thinker/thought is stuck on the left side of the paper we can’t represent Reality. This is not only Kant’s “the thing is not the thing itself (the mental map is not the real territory)” but more importantly whatever cannot be taken to represent “that of which all is part” i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality.
All we know about Reality (atoms, humans, galaxies) fit into a size-time-diagram (every object has a size and a time), so the minimalist approach combining the above paragraph with this one is to use the first paragraph to prove that the size-time diagram has infinite
axes. This in turn leads to an existential theory which can be summed up as “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime” – and it has a predictive quality to it: somewhere in such an existence there would be a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape and thus we get reproduction/evolution.
So far we’ve looked at the theory of why size itself exists, why there is something rather than nothing – an existential theory beginning from certain truth and logically building its way up all the way to predicting evolution.
Part 2: Evolution
My explanation of evolution focuses on how important disease and bullying (power) was for evolution.
Power
means that
fish
were
fighting fish breeding more agressive fish = dinosaurs, then wolfpacks with an alpha male.
But even before and after those eras in evolution the rule of power was in play.
In part one we had an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime (including the intertwinedness-separation-opposition and the time-axis with repeating Big Bangs perpendicular to the size-axis) that predicts a reproducing shape i.e. a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape: reproduction in an infinite size-range.
This infinite size-range predicts reproduction.
Part one was about why there is a sizescale of energymasspacetime: the answers are that the sizescale is infinite and that energymass is in spacetime. It predicts that there should be a reproducing shape: say that it is a triangle which gathers surrounding lines into a similar triangle – then it has reproduced itself. The products of this reproduction obey three rules: directly when there was reproduction three rules came into play, I´ve listed them below as 1, 2, 3 but they are not in order (they came simultaneously):
1:
There is life and death: those who survive survive and those who die are not in the game anymore. “The surviving survive”. It´s so simple – we see it in everyday life today. But everything in evolution will come back to these three rules so we might as well do the banal and bring them up.
So directly when there was a reproducing shape - so in our part of the size-range a DNA-strand which split in the middle and became two DNA-strands – the copy either survived or died.
2: The second rule is that the number of offspring has significance. That is to say: if you get one child or five children or ten children, there is a difference between those numbers – and in evolution it´s a benefit to have more children. One can also have zero children, and that is approximately like being dead.
Some would say that evolution´s meaning (the main task of life) is to make more offspring – that it´s the scientific meaning of life – Nature´s meaning: to reproduce. But I would answer that evolution makes more offspring (that´s reproduction) and making more offspring gives evolutionary benefits, but Nature itself does not care – it does not care about whether we nuke ourselves or not. There is no God that looks upon us and cares. Even reproduction becomes meaningless in the larger perspective. But in evolution it has significance whether one has zero offspring or ten offspring.
Rule number two (number of offspring matters) just as simple as rule number 1 (that there is life and death; that some live and some die).
The third rule that appered... – well all three rules appeared simultaneously directly when there was reproduction in this sizerange. The third rule is that:
3: There is mutation in every generation-shift. Things change. It doesn’t make perfect copies. Your child (if you have one) is not an exact copy of yourself or your wife – it’s a mutation; a change.
These three rules – 1: that there is life and death, the surviving survive. 2: That there are different nuances in the number of offspring. 3: That there is mutation in every generation-shift – these three rules came into play directly when the first reproduction occurred. We will return to these three rules over and over again; they are like laws of nature that like God says shall work on life directly
when the first life reproduces itself. These laws of nature didn’t exist before the first life reproduced itself – they were not active then. They became active directly when there was reproduction.
These are abstract laws that we will manufacture, then we have the physical reality of that in a puddle of water a strand of DNA – a cell – made copies/offspring. Then viruses came into the game and injected its own DNA into the ordinary cells, that is to say: hijacked their reproductive system to create virus-offspring. If this would´ve continued the ocean would´ve been filled with only viruses, so there has to be some next step which made it so that our type of life survived. But the viruses added a 4
th
law (one of these abstract laws)
and that is: if you can hijack someone else’s reproductive system to create your own offspring; if you can inject your DNA into somebody else´s cell so that it creates viruses – I call this “power”. We will return to this word when we for example look at dinosaurs (they became bigger because the men killed each other to get the women whom make offspring). This power-principle was one that came after the three first ones.
The first cells reproduced and we had these three rules, then viruses came and injected their DNA and used “power” to produce more viruses. Then we get an immune-system which kills viruses i.e. protects the original organism´s reproductive system from being hijacked by viruses. So the immune-system evolved to take back the reproductive principle (2: the number of offspring matters); for the fact that one should retain the reproductive capability for oneself – so that no virus can take it over. So power has a lot to do with the number of offspring – principle 4 has a lot to do with principle 2.
We have multicellular organisms with immune-systems, we have viruses around them – and it´s an arms-race between that the viruses mutate to overcome the immune-system and the immune-system mutates to overcome the virus. Thus we have an evolutionary pressure on mutating the immune-system as much as possible as fast as possible (because the viruses mutate very quickly), and the best way to do that is to combine genes from two different organisms: a man and a woman. So sex has its beginning in viruses.
If this doesn´t make you feel comfortable contemplate this: the truth outweighs positive-thinking. But does one want to remove whatever spreads joy among people? Those who want to defeat the religious violence in the world (I think religion is the biggest unnecessary cause of hatred in the world) – one cannot defeat that without defeating all religiousness simultaneously. To want to defeat one part of religion but not the rest of it is like voting for the Republicans and Democrats simultaneously – it´s just unreal. Sadly one must remove the good to remove the evil. Meditation still remains and one can get a kind of anxietylessness from some thoughts still but in the big picture there are no reasons that support them anymore – it´s just a brain-trick that one does.
In our evolutionary story we had an immune-system which mutates, wants more mutations – we get two genders. Then men begin to war with each other (because, metaphorically speaking, women can produce offspring once a year while men can produce it every day – we have an imbalance; asymmetry). Why is it always men that start wars? It began with the first fish – we had multicellular life in our story so far, so they became a bit bigger, could swim around – we get fish: it´s easier to find food then and easier to move around. Directly when there were two genders there was one fish which evolved to use its teeth for killing other male fish. The first aggressor of course got the most offspring because there were no other men around. That´s why men go to war: they can produce offspring with so many women while a woman has no benefit from having 1000 men.
There´s a
caveat to
this once we get to caveman tribes/wolf-packs where a woman secretly wants many men to provide resources to her child, but at least in the era between fish and dinosaurs the picture was simply based on asymmetric reproductive rates.
So then the male fish grow more aggressive, the child who is the biggest and has the sharpest teeth kills the other male fish, has the most offspring; and in the next generation, again: the child with the most aggression and biggest muscles gets the most offspring – that´s how we get to dinosaurs and T-rex. We had males competing/fighting with each other and that´s why T-rex is so large. That is, again, the power-principle: just like viruses took over the reproductive system from the first cells, T-rex takes away the reproductive system from his rivals by killing them. So this principle number 4 (power) lives on – it has caused/causes so much: it causes the first viruses, it causes T-rex, that fish become aggressive, that we get two genders (by viruses getting power – so we wanted to counter that power by immune-systems i.e. two genders).
These dinosaurs then, just like humans don´t seem to have (sarcasm), any concept of preserving natural resources – so they would´ve eaten up all their trees and not had any food left. But on our planet it seems to have been a meteor-strike which wiped them out, but on exoplanets i.e. overall in this evolutionary series of evolutionary pressures causing various principles (first the three first principles, then the 4
th
principle, immune-systems, two-genderedness, bigger
fish, fights between the fish, dinosaurs). The dinosaurs ate their natural resources and all large life dies - so only small rat-like/squirrel-like life-forms live on.
The trees grow back up – we get monkeys.
Groups tend to, in a fight – if it´s a group against an individual (one against many) – the group tends to win. So we monkeys form groups, fighting together for food against individualists. The individualists lost.
So we got this - or had it from the get-go (just like with the first aggressors) – instinct that makes us want to be highest in the hierarchy and thereby get all the women. Power again. But this time it´s a kind of human power – we saw power when viruses took over the reproductive systems, we saw power when dinosaurs outcompeted their rivals (the men), we see power when a bully goes to the top of the hierarchy, pushes down the other men – and the women want the bully´s resources (he has the most stuff) so they´re attracted to him, so he gets the most offspring – out of his offspring the one that is best at getting power the one that gets most offspring.
The reason for why the brain grew so fast during the past 100 000 years was because we used the brain to plan for how to climb upward in the hierarchy. The reproductive benefits coming from being high-status in the hierarchy were so great comparing to being low-status that this put great selection-pressure on bigger brains.
Now we basically have caveman living in hierarchical societies, we have kings, aristocrats and slaves – and that is how the world was 5000 years ago. The kings build monumental architecture (pyramids and such). Then someone focused on a random word – so someone focused on what we talked about in part 1: Reality (that of which all is part) and realized one cannot see it (because we should be part of it, or the other two proofs for not being able to see all there is to Reality) and thus they invented the word God: it is one, one cannot see it – we have the dawn of monotheism.
Someone random-focused on the word “soul/self” too and realized one gets less anxiety by making a distinction between the body
one sees in ones imaginations
(the body in one´s plans which tries to get reproduction, survival, resources, power, etc. – the three evolutionary principles that we listed in the beginning of this chapter). One sees a body in front of oneself which tries to make plans to get these things. But it is not that body which is “true” – instead it´s the observer which sees this body which is “True” – and one cannot see that observer because one is it all the time. This was when they invented the Soul.
So the words God and Soul are legitimate concepts – then the church added a bunch of things like “the soul is immortal” and that “God said this and that to one or another person” (prophets and so on whom lied about a bunch of things). We also have the Golden Rule “do onto others like you would like to have them do onto you” which is a universal thing that they surely have on other planets: we are all humans, we want to be treated as of equal value. So from evolution we went from having cavemen to that someone came up with these
simple
thoughts, and then the church added a bunch of clutter to them. We thus have religions´ beginnings. The ideas of soul (the True self/observer which can´t be seen) and God (that of which all is part is One) are scientific ideas – so to some extent we have the beginnings of science.
Then people invented the telescope and microscope (to discover the sizes in the size-range), and we have a lot of knowledge and upbringing – but this is more intellectual history instead of biological history/evolution – but the intellectual has its foundation in the biological. So now we have gone through the whole story from the first cells to the birth of science.
I try to make this into a theory that is agreed upon by everyone; nowadays there are people who say that God (defined as a metaphysical mind) is needed to understand the theory of evolution – that there are mysteries within evolution. But I see no mysteries in this.
In a future book we will look at consciousness: which kind of emotional repertoire we have. We already said that we want power, we want reproduction, we want resources… But we will look closer at exactly which emotions exist and into which categories one can categorize them – and why they came about (what their evolutionary histories/pressures are). Which exact emotions? The feeling that one wants power, the feeling that one wants to help the flock, the feeling that one wants to plan how to get reproduction… - everything we do / the things that we do. For example I wrote this book because I´m at “war” with the enemies of civilization (“the enemy tribe”), because I want power out of selling this, reproduction out of getting status from having found a new way of describing some things, helping
countries ravaged by religion to become civilized (“helping flock-members”)…
These things drive me to do something intellectual. The emotional repertoire – that is to say: the diagrams about the brain – we can look at in the next book, because now we´ve looked at evolution and evolution created the brain so there is a lot of overlap.
Part 3:
The dawn of religion
No-one knows which kind of God emerged first (in protohuman minds). Was it the contemplation on Part 1 of this book (the oneness of Reality and it’s unrepresentability – focusing on the most all-encompassing concept)? Was there a war between two tribes/groups and to avoid soldiers from
deserting one’s own group, the priest/king claimed to get his orders from a super-human invisible entity (which “looks better” than a mere human giving orders). Thinking
“they have a superhuman invisible commander while our group is just mere humans” is demoralizing for the group believing that the enemy has something mystical super-human communicating with their leadership. This kind of god is a tool of war. Or was the first God invented in dog-brain sized brains where a simple cortical circuit (the assotiations: the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) lessened anxiety. We are after-all craving for the approval of “the hierarchical top”, we fear it... we have all kinds of emotions toward it and it can be imagined to love me, to dictate procedures like prayers to me, etc. It’s such a simple cortical circuit to define the hierarchy’s top as “that of which all is part (Reality)” and say that it loves me. That’s basically three concepts (hierarhical top (Reality) protecting me) – and it alliviates anxiety and gets us through dark nights of the soul. For the simple reason that it feels good to activate that circuit we try to “drug ourselves” by activating it over and over, emphasizing our belief in it, teaching it to everybody. The “hierarchical top (defined as Reality) protects me”-emotion
is one of those good feelings that we can activate at will. When we genetically engineer super-positive feelings to be activated by words, those new animals will propably activate their best emotions like a drug-addict seeks drugs – but they can activate it with words.
The circuitry is simple enough and panic attacks are common enough that I think everyone activates that “...protects/loves me”-circuitry during their life-time. Some choose to call it “belief in God”, others “the hierarchical top (defined as that of which all is part) protects me” and others don’t use any words for it because it is as unnoticable as digestion – something that naturally occurs in certain circumstances and one doesn’t need to be arrogant or proud of having that circuitry because it’s like 3-4 concepts (memorizing 4 concepts whom’s associations make us feel better is not a big feat).
Whichever type of God came first is lesser of a question, though, than: is heaven the same thing? Can “heaven” (and “hell”) be interpreted in a way that it makes sense? Heaven is obviously not a location in the sizerange (we don’t move in the sizerange when we die), so is heaven outside the entire theory (and thus “outside” (though this thing has no outside) that of which all is part)? No. Heaven may be synonomous to being good, and not some location in the diagram.
Maybe heaven is what the future genetically engineered super-happy animal will be in all the time.
Summary
Now that we know the three-pillar existential theory (like infinitely many extraterrestrials in infinite space thinks about it), we’ve got the beginning of evolution with a tiny DNA-strand (first reproduction sparking the three first evolutionary rules (1,2,3) and then the 4
th
(power). At the same time we see a continuum all the way to understand religions.
Since the infinitely many extraterrestrials are like us – they share the same logical evolutionary principles in sets following one another along time in a triangle-shape because increasing complexity is shown along the triangle.
It’s not like I don’t sometimes focus on the sentence “top of the hierarchy (defined as that of which all is part) loves and protects me” (“belief in God” in religious language).
Aliens can also prioritize what to focus on; what to take more off and what one wants to take less of. Aliens “judge” us based on principles like maximum happiness for all (animals, all humans), “do onto others like you’d want them do to yourself”. These are simple universal rules that aliens follow to maximize happiness in an otherwise brutal dog-eat-dog world.
On a common but erroneous rebuttal to my allegedly faul
t
y logic where I connect Kantian “the thing is not the thing itself” to “that of which all is part cannot be observed” (and thus there is more to the sizerange than... there is infinitely much
). I don’t jump from Kant to stating that there is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram.
I use another intellectual tradition parallell to Kant’s: it’s t
he intellectual tradition of playing with the word “observed/represented”.
How vaguely does the universe define this word? Answer: 0.
När jag studerade så var det en kurs om Kant som sa att "the map is not the territory", men jag hade associerat den tankebanan (vilken vi båda förstår och kan kalla Kantisk) med NLP (neuro-linguistic programming). Hursomhelst så håller vi med varandra om att Kant har rätt. Det finns en annan tankebana, dock, dvs ett extra-tillägg till Kants förståelse) och den handlar om tankeexperimentet att leka med ordet "representera" och hur vagt universum har definierat det ordet. I princip kan vad som helst representera vad som helst.
Barn har inte från början enbart den Kantiska tankevärlden gällande detta utan går gärna med på att "that of which all is part cannot be observed" (lek med ordet "observed" och hur vagt det är definerat i universum). Det betyder i sin tur att till allt det möjligen representerbara (på storleks-tids-diagrammet) finns mer; vi kan "observera" (spekulera) kring någonting oändligt mycket mindre än kvantmekaniken och ändå finns det mer är kan representeras (och här menar jag representeras utan människor).
To me, what’s worth noticing is the existential theory which predicts a tiny DNA-strand is more interesting because it is HOW God created the universe, or if you prefer: you remove God and the existential theory rests firmly on its three pillars.
To me, the core of religion seems to be different emotions to and from the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”). The context of course is hierarchical animals which were preceded by group-dwelling animals (we talked about this in part 2 of this book: evolution).
Having a simplistic association of concepts (merely the 3-4
concepts: hierarchical top – defined as that of which all is part – protects/loves/etc me) gives a relief of anxiety, fear, loneliness etc. Having the more complex picture of the same thing – the context surrounding it – makes the whole thing mundane because we realize that “hierarchical top” refers to our wolf-like nature and “that of which all is part” comes as an infinite sizerange.
As I’ve said I agree with the words Soul (true self vs false self; observer of the body in one’s plans vs. the body in one’s plans) and God (defined as “that of which all is part” and synonymous with Reality). But Heaven is a tricker question – what does “heaven” mean? It is obviously no unknown size-range
in the infinite sizerange nor a location in space, nor can it be “outside” [that of which all is part]. I acknowledge that believing in heaven gives the same kind of fear-relief as “the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) protects me”, but like I said: I have trouble not being complex and analyzing “the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) protects me” (putting it in it’s sizescalian and evolutionary context), and with “Heaven” I have even more trouble because the single simplest thought ruins that idea. If I were to try to “believe in Heaven” I’d have to focus so hard that my mind doesn’t wander to even the most closely associated or easily retrieved scientific concept (because that destroys heaven). I do believe in doing good out of solidarity, and that doing good will reak its rewards for the millions of coming generations.
So to me Holy Books tend to contain only the following: different emotions to and from the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) , scientific truths like that Reality cannot be seen, heaven & hell and rituals.
Other than material pleasures like humor, I think we can find
condolence
in that being something in nothing with a bleak evolutionary story is more grim than we feel it to be; the truth hurts but not as much as we can feel. We are worse off than we realize and we should be happy we don’t fully feel our meaningless depressing situation which is made sense of in an unintuitive (and thus gives the feeling of confusion) way
(I’m thinking mainly of the three-PILLAR existential theory).
In Holy Books I also tend to find what I’ll relate to you in an anecdote: I was sitting in the back-seat of a car on vacation in a country which I had fallen in love with, whilst winter was raging in my home country. The driver of the car asked if I wanted a hazelnut croissant. I thought what was more important of a topic was for me to whine about that I don’t ever want to leave this country, I want my vacation to last longer, I don’t want to go back to the darkness and snow. So I said “I don’t want to go back to Sweden 🙁 !!” and the driver asked “what does this have to do with the hazelnut croissant?”. I put my answer in a joke: “the connection between the two topics is very deep and significant, but it’s hard to explain: it’s mysterious – and that’s religion.” I tend to find, to say the least, unintuitive associations between concepts in holy books (not meant as jokes).
War and Boredom
Author
yonis
Posted on
31/12/2016
06/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on War and Boredom
2 Nobel Prizes
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/Untitled-Project2.mp4
Author
yonis
Posted on
12/12/2016
14/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on 2 Nobel Prizes
V 2-4
V2-4
Author
yonis
Posted on
08/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on V 2-4
Existential theory (2)
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/We-are-evolution-2.mp4
Author
yonis
Posted on
07/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Existential theory (2)
Summary in video (10 min)
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/Untitled.mp4
Author
yonis
Posted on
05/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Summary in video (10 min)
Latest version of my book
Warrior of Boredom
The title of this book refers to that it is hard to get through this book. The reason why this new science (that I present in this book) hasn’t been discovered until I did is because it’s depressing, anxiety-giving and BORING. But the question is: does everyone agree on it? If they do, that changes the Israel-Palestine-conflict where the parties of God are vetoing “the holy land”. Religion is the biggest cause for hate in the world, as Hitchens said. My book defeats religion – it’s a minimalist theory that works completely – a theory of Everything: existence (why there is size itself), evolution – even thoughts on the methodology for doing politics.
Philosophy = honor,
but anxiety/depression and boredom. Religion = no honor,
but less anxiety/depression and less boredom.
The big picture, accounting of everything, conflicts with certain positive-thinking brain-tricks and with our bias toward ignoring some negative/depressing aspects of nature.
The first part of this book will be a more detailed discourse about the following paragraph:
Descartes proved that there is distinction (between thinker and thought) - what's the opposite of distinction: "that of which all is part" (Reality). Since we are stuck in Descarte's thinker and thought-realm we can't see Reality, nor can "whatever" not represent it, meaning that there's more to it than can be contemplated/represented. Since all objects we know of fit in a size-time-diagram, this argument must mean that there is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram - and this in turn leads us to an existential theory (a theory about why there is size in the first place).
I realize that’s too fast of a paragraph to convince everyone and thus I want to convince the readers of this book to be warrios or boredom and see all my arguments.
Lecture 1
Descartes
One of the aims of this course is to get EVERYONE to agree so that they have the same associations between scientific concepts.
There is no other proper way to accomplish this goal than by starting with certain truth, which was found by Descartes in the 1600s. He lived in a time where they believed in demons, Gods etc. so he postulated a thought experiment where he assumed an almighty demon was fooling him in everything he could be fooled in: what would remain as certain truth – what could he not be fooled in?
If he was being fooled, where would still be a “he” (or self) there to be fooled, meaning that the self certainly exists. A self is necessary for a self to be fooled.
Descartes had thus concluded his own existence.
Being fooled is thinking – thus thought exists. “There is thought” Descartes concluded as certain truth. The word “fooling” represents a thought-process.
Descartes found the starting-position for any inquiry about truth: we can know certainly that thinker and thought exists.
Distinction exists (a logical conclusion from the above)
Looking at what we´ve found as certain truth so far “from above” (meta), we can take the next logical step – adding a third factoid to our 2-statement (A and B above) starting position: that there is distinction (
between
thinker and thought). The fact that thinker and thought are two separate entities concluded to be certain truth
s
through two
different
logical pathway
s
lets us conclude that “distinction exists”
. There are what Chinese philosophy calls “the ten thousand things” (referring to the world) – there are at least two (three if we include “distinction” as th
e third thing) certain entities, and empirically we know there are “ten thousand things” (not taking the number 10 000 literally but just referring to multiplicity).
First universal diagram
We can draw the thinker and thought and distinction between them as two dots with a line between them on a piece of paper (fig. 1).
Now we have something all religions agree on
– we´ve drawn up ideas and associations between them. Everyone ought to have the same associations (explanatory thoughts) between the concepts we´ve looked at so far.
We have, if you will – in figure 1 – a universal diagram.
Reality
We have the capability to conglomerate many separate entities under the rubric of a single category. If we use this capability to collect the “ten thousand things” (distinct entities) we´ve found so far into a single thing, we ought to give that thing a word/name. Its definition can be “that of which all is part” and “the opposite of separation/distinction”. I will use the word Reality to refer to this all-encompassing thing.
In lecture 2 I will present three proofs for that “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, but for now we can draw (adding to figure 1) a dot with a cross over it – the cross to symbolize that the dot itself is a false representation of Reality because we (the observer/self/thinker) should be part of that dot. See fig 2.
Thinking about what we´ve got so far
Thinking about what we´ve got so far (fig. 2) it’s a bundle of associations which make universal inter-religious (all religions agree on it) knowledge with both words and pictures.
In the next lecture I present why the line in fig 2 (see fig 3) represents the opposition/antagonism/disagreement/contraposition/divergence/variance between the two sides of the paper; between “thinker and thought” on one side of the paper and “Reality (that of which all is part; the opposite of separation)” on the other side of the paper.
Worth noting now is that the left side of the paper represents separation/distinction whilst the right side of the paper represents the opposite of separation/distinction – both are legitimate ideas: thinker and thought – and distinction – is certain truth based on Descartes and we all know which idea we refer to when talking about the all-encompassing [that of which all is part] Reality.
In the next lecture we will talk about why the line in fig. 3 makes it so that we can´t see Reality – I will present three proofs like in a crime case, and we will talk about what we can see if we can´t see Reality.
Making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far
1
See fig. 1 again: it´s our starting-point and the thinking that occurs in it happens in Descartes “realm of mind”; it is the mind´s realm (the left side of the paper) in which the thinking happens, and one thing we talk about is Reality on the right side of the paper in fig 3. Since the line in fig. 3 represents both the legitimacy of the ideas on both sides of the paper, and simultaneously the opposition between separation/distinction (on the left side of the paper) and [the opposite of separation/distinction] on the right side of the paper. That opposition is important and I will show its significance in lecture 2.
2
Starting from Descartes realm (of if you will: assuming that all we know is what we know for certain), we have the capability to state that there is a single Reality of which all is part – so even though we see separation we must grant that that separation (all entities) fits into a category we call Reality. There is a unifying whole even though the human mind (Descartes realm) is limited in its ways when it tries to contemplate Reality.
Not only is there the map-territory distinction (which will be presented as one out of three proofs in lecture 2), but there is also a more fundamental opposition between distinction and its opposite (there is a more fundamental opposition between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3). Not only are we stuck in the map-territory-distinction-realm but we also can conclude that no representation (regardless of the mind) is equal to Reality (on a more fundamental level than the map-territory-problem).
Representation is done in the brain using neurons and in a computer using electrons, but there is no reason why the most distant atom or quark couldn´t be proposed to be a symbol for [that of which all is part] – and even in that brainless scenario we will see in lecture 2 that “that of which all is part cannot be represented”. The map-territory-distinction is just proof/evidence number two in lecture 2 (for that we cannot see Reality and thus, since we do see/represent something, there must be more to Reality than can be represented i.e. the size-time-diagram (presented in lecture
2) is infinite along both axes.
Proof 3 in lecture 2 removes the brain from the equation and still proves that there is more to Reality than can be seen/represented/symbolized (using any means/any method – even without a brain), and since some representation is obviously (since we know that there are minds) possible, there must be more than can be represented/contemplated i.e. the size-axis is infinite and the time-axis is infinite in that two-axis diagram.
3
Both sides of the paper in fig. 3 are legitimate ideas. But still they are opposites (separation on one side and the opposite of separation on the other side). How can two derived-from-logic sides of the paper be opposites but still both be legitimate?
Usually opposition – like between Democrats and Republicans – means that one is right and the other is wrong; they can´t both simultaneously be right: you can´t meaningfully vote for both parties at the same time.
The case is different between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3: both sides are right and they are opposites.
There is a single Reality and there is multiplicity in distinction.
What does this mean? That there is more to the size-time-diagram than anything could represent – any representation fails (you can think of some
examples/suggestions for how to represent [that of which all is part]/[the opposite of separation]) – and thus the axes on the size-time-diagram are infinite. This is a hither to unpresented fact in science – it is new science: some of the best scientists ignorantly believe that the size-range is limited/finite.
4
We have quite a few associations and symbols in fig. 3 which must be agreed upon, and here I´m using the word “must” in the sense that “by the rules of logic X must be true”. Other civilizations throughout the infinitely many galaxies there are use the exact same ideas (but in a different language) and have the same associations between them (that there are infinitely many galaxies is derived from that the size-axis in the size-time-diagram is infinite). There is distinction as the third truth to be added to Descartes two fundamental truths (thinker and thought exist), and all that is opposed to (on the other side of the paper in fig. 3) to the all-encompassing Reality which is defined using at least two definitions: that of which all is part and the opposite of separation.
I´m tri-lingual but I write the same ideas and associate them in the same ways no matter which language I write in – its universal science beginning from certain truth. On other planets that have civilizations my writings in this book ought to match up quite near to the writings creating the same lecture series based on universal science that I´m creating
– “alien”/exo-planet
lecture series proceed, beginning from certain fact, through logical steps as I do.
5
[Thinker and thought] (certain truth) and thus distinction/separation are associated through negation/opposition to the right side of the paper in figure 3: Reality. The left side is not the right side just like separation is not its opposites. Both being legitimate ideas, though, connects them in the way that thinker and thought (and all other distinct entities) are in the category Reality.
Even though Reality and distinction are opposites, distinction dwells in (as a sub-entity within the category) Reality.
The associations between the left and right sides of the paper in figure 3 are both united through the notion “opposition” and through the notion that distinction is inherent in Reality (Reality being the opposite of distinction
because we have all-encompassing and its opposite: composite parts).
6
It is certainly true that all is part of a single Reality; but it is equally true that in every observation there is an observer and hence distinction (between thinker and thought). We see separate entities is as true as that the self that we are is not in front of us – but everything we see (thought/object) is in front of us.
That is evidence 1 in lecture 2 (not a proof, but a mere suggestion/evidence that [that of which all is part cannot be observed] and thus there is more to Reality than our concept of [infinitely much].
All we know about Reality has two properties: a size and a time. Size and time are two axes on a diagram, and thus all we know fits into the size-time-diagram (every object or location in space has a size and time).
There is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram because all suggested representors for Reality fail
(for three reasons taken up in lecture 2).
7
All
bundles of associations in this chapter “making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far”
are written in order to create some universal brain structures (universal because
science is the same everywhere (on all exo-planets), and their brains make the same associations too eventually). It´s not some random bundle of associations nor did I randomly present random ideas.
I assume the brain structure created by understanding this book is a replica of something derived from science; a replica of brain structures on the infinitely many other civilization-bearing planets. It´s a universal “ideology”, if you will.
Everyone has a possibility of sharing it in agreement – and future lectures will add a whole lot of complexity to it; agreement tends to build friendship so study is a way of bringing more peace to the world.
Once the full world-view is presented throughout this book, it´s a way of pacifying the world.
8
We have two brain-halves: one linguistic and one visual. So far we´ve both drawn pictorial representations and connected words – both brain-halves have been working. The connections across corpus collosum (which sits between the brain-halves and connects them) that connect a linguistic narrative/explanation to the pictorial representations are one day found in all humans thanks to science. Our brains are becoming more as science has a propensity to make them be.
This course itself, since it begins with certain truths and builds upon it logically, is a universal course (to the best of my ability).
The brain cells that constitute the negation (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 3) or opposition are not the same kind of cells (they are inhibitory neurons) that connect thinker with though as both being certain truths (but the thinker is not the thought and thus has inhibitory cells making that brain-structure work too
(what you are is not in front of you;
what you are is not visible).
Since both Reality and [what you are]/self/observer/thinker are invisible the brain might erroneously and spontaneously try to associate them, so a brain-structure is needed to inhibit that association (and replace it with a more complex explanation). That spontaneous but erroneous association is something all thinking animals throughout the universe evolved to do, and the inhibition of it through culture/civilizing/science is universally available within complex enough civilizations throughout the universe.
As you can see the brain structures responsible for doing this thing are quite complex, but also universal and thus accessible to all humans, and predictably will someday be in all humans (fostering agreement, thus friendship, thus peace).
Lecture 2
Perceive, apprehend, notice are synonyms for our representing ability, but I will use the word “see” or “observe” to refer to all of these. The goal of this lecture is to prove the statement “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, Reality being defined as “that of which all is part”. In other words: we cannot see Reality, and thus there is more to Reality than even can be contemplated (i.e. infinitely much).
I will build this lecture like a criminal court case: I will present three proofs for that we cannot see Reality i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated i.e. (since we can contemplate anything (right or wrong)) Reality is infinite.
Since anything/everything we know about Reality has some size and time, it fits into a size-time-diagram. See fig. 4.
In fig. 4 size is represented along the vertical axis and time along the horizontal axis. The objects humans see in everyday life (from the horizon to a single cell as one “pixel” in our visual field) are marked in “the human range”.
See fig 5.
In fig. 5 I´ve drawn the same diagram as in fig. 4 but this time with infinity-symbols in each corner of the squareical size-time-diagram. Two infinite axes become a square.
Proof number 3 in our “court case” for proving that the size-time-diagram (Reality) is infinite has us imagine the unobservable separatenessless Reality and ask whether there is a maximum or minimum size to/in it (a maximum/minimum being separateness while we are talking about the opposite of separation). This is again to confirm that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes.
The line we drew in fig. 4 was for separating the two sides of the paper; opposing “thinker and thought” (distinction) with its opposite: one all-encompassing non-distinction Reality. That opposition-line is what this lecture is about since it proves that the two sides of the paper are
separate/opposing realms and we are stuck in one realm as long as we are observers (because observation is separation/distinction (thinker and thought)).
Proving that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes is new science because it poses the question: what happened before the Big Bang (14 billion years ago), and it presents one pillar of our existential theory: that each size is the reason for each next and previous size, and the size axis is infinite, meaning the “beginning” of the relationship between sizes keeps retreating into infinity the more we contemplate the range of the size axis.
When I presented fig. 4 for the first time I drew a cross over the dot symbolizing Reality for the plain reason that we (as observers) should be part of that dot, and by the very nature of us being separate (and the dot representing the opposite of separation) we should draw a cross over it symbolizing that we cannot see it.
The main proof though is that even if all observers were dead there´d still be, inherent and fundamental in nature, the opposition between distinction and distinction´s opposite (the two sides of the paper in fig. 4). The line is an opposition-line and it is more fundamental than being dependent on humans/observers – it refers to all representation whether it’s using/including humans or not. I am, in other words, not talking about the map-territory distinction (which symbolizes that humans have mental maps and not the real world per se; like Kant said: we have “the thing” and not “the thing itself”). Proof 2 – the opposition-line between the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 – is not subjective: it is true that we live with the map-territory-distinction but even if I died there´d still be separate things (chairs separate from cups), that kind of separation is not dependent on me/observers. Simultaneously the flipside of the coin (the other side of the paper in fig. 4) is true too: all is one single Reality (the opposite of separation). Proof 2, in other words, should not be interpreted as signifying the map-territory distinction (human subjectivity) but instead a fundamental opposition in the universe.
If we do not see Reality, then what do we see? Everything we see fits into the size-time-diagram, and since the opposition-line in fig. 4 shows that there is a fundamental rule that states, in 3 different proofs, that Reality is infinite / there is more than can even be contemplated / there is more than even non-subjective representation can represent.
Proof number 1 is really weaker than a “proof” – it´s more like evidence. It wouldn´t hold up in a court but it is a way of stating what the other proofs too point towards. Proof 1 is what we saw when presenting figure 4: any dot representing Reality is an incorrect representation because the observer should be part of the object – the thinker should be part of the thought. It denies Cartesian separation and thus is untrue, meaning that anything we draw on the right side of the paper in fig. 4 is incorrect.
We can contemplate anything: we can speculate about what´s smaller than quantum physics, or even what´s smaller than that, etc. into infinity. We are probably wrong, but any contemplation/representation counts as a contemplation – and since we know that, whether right or wrong as our contemplations may be, there is more to Reality than can be contemplated, it follows that there must be infinitely much to Reality. Since all we know about Reality fits into a size-time-diagram, the minimalist approach is to state that it´s the size-time-diagram that is infinite.
This warrants two new words: the knowable/known size-range and the infinite size-range. The knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range. Since Einstein unified space (size) and time, one cannot be infinite without the other one being the same. Science today doesn´t know whether there was a “before” to the Big Bang or not (whether time was created at the Big Bang), but now we know that the Big Bang is just an event on an infinite time axis. In a future lecture we will talk about how/why the Big Bang recreates (happens over and over).
We talked about universal diagrams (and universal brain-structures) in lecture 1. The size-time-diagram is one major universal diagram. A lot of detail can be added to it because all fields of science fit into it. The infinity-symbols on each axis of the squareical diagram are drawn, based on science, on exo-planets with advanced enough civilizations.
This lecture is about proving that [that of which all is part] (the opposite of separation) i.e. Reality cannot be observed/represented, and that this fact is true irrespective of whether we are observers or dead, and applying this to the size-time-diagram (which gets its infinity-symbols into the squareical diagram).
Proof number 2 (the main proof) is the oppositional approach between Reality and distinction, and it is not subjective because Reality and Reality´s opposite exist even if we were dead. Proof number 3 is about imagining (even though no imagination is it) Reality as a big gray (because energymass is white and spacetime is black) solid, in which we know no observer should be (because observation is separation) – does it have separation i.e. a biggest and a smallest size? No, because such distinctions are not in the opposite of distinction (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 4).
I´ve mentioned universal associations in the brain / exo-planet science, so talking about the size-time-diagram we can add more universal notions to it: why did I draw upwards on the size axis as larger and downward as smaller? Why is the time-axis horizontally drawn instead of vertically? The diagram works even if we would define the vertical axis as time and the horizontal axis as size – so why do we draw size vertically and time horizontally? Is it universal i.e. on other planets or just a human convention like writing from left to right in English-speaking countries and right to left in Arabic-speaking countries?
Evolution has it so that during the history of science telescopes look upward and microscopes look downward. This would be the case on other planets too: they turn their heads upward to see the large and downward (onto a table) to see the small; the opposite can´t be true on any planet. Thus we get the size axis´ standard (of upward being larger) from evolution / the history of science. I use the word “standard” because it comes from evolution rather than being more fundamentally hard-wired into the universe such as the fact that the size-time-diagram is a square with infinity symbols. That the size-time-diagram is a square is not a standard – it is something stronger than that. The fact that we represent time on the vertical axis (and upward as larger) comes from a weaker source: tradition (even though that same tradition is true on all planets; evolution, in this regard, happens the same on all planets that end up with civilizations).
We thus have added standards or weak conventions (derived from history) in addition to having strong diagrams like the size-time-diagram being a square. The distinction between the two is made based on science and is thus made on exo-planets.
Scientists are looking for exo-planets that bear civilizations. If the size-range is infinite – as we´ve proven that it is – then each particular size (like the human range in fig. 5) is infinite too; if the largest is infinitely large then there is, considering the size of a human, an infinite distance in any direction that that human could find itself in. This makes civilizations on other planets a must, not an assumption. The known/knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range, and within the known size-range there is a range in which evolution occurs (between the smallest cells and the biggest organisms), and since we´ve proven that there are infinitely many objects within/of that size-range, then there must be infinitely many locations in which evolution occurs.
In the next lecture we will bind together the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 (distinction and distinction´s opposite; “thinker and thought” opposing Reality) with E=mc
2
(energymasspacetime) and with the infinity of the size-time axes, into a single existential theory which is a rival to “God created earth in 6 days…” The existential theory is a minimalist account for why there is a sizescale in the first place, and why there is something (energymass) rather than nothing (spacetime). It reminds me of this passage: “HITCHENS: In other words, as the great physicist Laplace said when he demonstrated his working model (his orrery, as it’s called) of the solar system to the emperor and Napoleon said, “Well I see there’s no God in this system,” and Laplace said, “Well, Your Majesty, it works without that assumption.””
In this chapter I´ve presented three proofs for that the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in it i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated; we do represent something but however we choose to represent (even representations that can be proposed as thought-experiments if we were dead) we do not represent Reality i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality. Are there any counter-arguments saying that the size-time-diagram is finite? I built this lecture like a court case and I´d like to hear the opposing side. There are no arguments that oppose what I´ve proven so far.
Lecture 3
E=mc
2
E=mc
2
as an equation is only used in relativistic scenarios such as very high speed or very high energy, but since speed is a continuum the equation is true at slower speeds. There is a difference between the equation being applicable (being needed while solving equations) and it being true; it is always true everywhere but it is not needed for equations except in special scenarios.
An example of the equation being true everywhere and always is this: nuclear power-plants turn mass (kilograms) into energy (joule), so that if you input 1 kg of uranium-mass you get out 99.9999 kg of waste products – some of the mass turned into energy which lights our light-bulbs. The atoms that lost some weight (that weight was converted into energy) are atoms just like other kinds of atoms, for example in autumn leaves. If you´d drop leaves into the core of the sun, the sun´s nuclear furnace would turn mass in the leaves into energy (light). Hence all objects are subject to the E=mc
2
-rule, which states that energy (E) equals mass (m). This warrants the word energymass because they are no longer two distinct things – they are but different manifestations of the same thing. In the brain
energymass should be a single idea whilst the concepts “energy and mass” refers to two different forms of a single idea.
Verbs and adjectives tend to refer to energy (shining, running, etc.) while nouns refer to mass (body, tree, etc.) E=mc
2
states that the two (verbs/adjectives and nouns) are together in a single equation. Although only applicable in relativistic scenarios (the role of relativism becomes close to zero in everyday human events, except that our light-bulbs shine because mass turns into energy and the sun can makes leaves into light), E=mc
2
is in a “philosophical” sense true everywhere and always just like Pythagoras’s theorem about triangles remains “philosophically true” even where there are no physical triangles. You wouldn´t say 1=1 is not true in empty space just because there are no objects there to count as “1”.
In addition to energymass being a single concept (and not two distinct ones), spacetime gets added into the mix by the c
2
-part of the equation. c is the speed of light (km/h) and thus a distance (space) over time – spacetime! Energymass (E=m) and spacetime (c
2
) should in the brain be represented by a single idea which we can call energymasspacetime. This harkens back to the previous lectures about Reality, which is a synonym for energymasspacetime. Einstein invented the equation E=mc
2
and thus unified in it energymass with spacetime – and synonyms for energymass are “existence” or “1” while synonyms for spacetime are “non-existence”, “emptiness”, “nothing” and “zero”. There is no more to be considered regarding Reality than energymasspacetime; energymasspacetime involves everything (energymass) and nothing (spacetime) so there is nothing more to be considered/added to Reality – Reality is energymasspacetime; everything is included into Reality once we have defined Reality as energymasspacetime.
The Existential Theory
Each culture seems to have a creation myth (such as genesis) – the creation of the cosmos/world/Reality is something humans have invented hypotheses for during millennia. The stories answer the question “why are we here?”
The true answer is unintuitive. First of all: why is there any particular size? What justifies, say, the size of a molecule? The answer is: the smaller and the larger (the rest of the size-range). Atoms justify a molecule and a molecule exhibits a place for atoms to live in: justifies atoms. Humans need an earth to dwell on (the earth is larger) and humans are made of cells (cells are smaller). Each size bears a relationship upon each other size – the smaller justify the larger and the larger justify the smaller. Since the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all four corners of the square (because of the proof where we had two sides of a paper), the size-range is infinite i.e. the pattern of justification between/amongst sizes continues into the infinitely large and infinitely small. What the ancients called “the first cause” keeps retreating into infinity size-wise the more we contemplate it. The size-range is like a fractal: you can keep zooming in or out infinitely much, and the question “why is there this particular object that I see” has its answer in the relationship between all the sizes: justification. Infinite justification is the reason why there is a size-range at all. But there is more that is needed for a full-fledged existential theory: two more factors play their roles.
Spacetime is emptier than we can imagine/represent it. We (and all representeurs) are energymass and thus are the opposite of spacetime. We could let a piece of empty space represent spacetime, but as soon as we use energymass (such as our brains) to do so, we´ve lost the truly empty nature of
spacetime: it is unimaginably empty. Any bundle of neurons, no matter how we wire it, is still the opposite of what they want to represent when they want to present us with spacetime. It is therefore useful to have two concepts for spacetime: (1) our simplest intuition of spacetime and (2) additional defining language explaining that spacetime is emptier than (1). This is how exoplanet civilizations would wire their brains regarding the concept “spacetime” too, just because it’s the most accurate science they can manage.
Just like energy and mass are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon, energymass and spacetime are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon. What does it mean for spacetime to be bundled together with (intertwined with) energymass? Everything exists as/in/because of nothing; 1 exists in 0; energymass and spacetime are together in the E=mc
2
-equation. Where could energymass/existence exist? In nothingness. Just like sizes justify one another, spacetime justifies energymass.
The last question that remains, after we have justification between sizes in an infinite size-range, and that all points in the size-time-diagram are made of energymasspacetime (and energymass is justified by it being in spacetime), is the objective fact that there both is a single Reality (the right side of the paper) and there´s its opposite: distinction (between, say, thinker and thought).
The existential theory builds on three “pillars”/fundamental ideas:
An infinite sizescale,
Energymasspacetime as in the equation E=mc
2
Distinction between distinction itself and distinction´s opposite (see fig. 1, 2, 3):
Between distinction (the left side of the paper, our 2 certain truths: I exist and there is thought) and Reality (the opposite of distinction; one Reality (not plural)) there is a line that demarcates distinction/opposition.
Putting it all into one phrase we might say: “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime with opposition between distinction and Oneness”. At its core it´s three ideas (infinite size-time-diagram, energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
), separation and intertwinedness (the two sides of the paper)). On exoplanets they would state their reason for their own existence using these three ideas too, because taken together they explain all that needs to be explained: first thing that comes to mind is that in the stated existential theory there must be a reproducing shape (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape; a DNA-strand) somewhere. If the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all three corners, then evolution ought to occur somewhere (and be made of energymass in spacetime, while being separate/distinct in a single intertwined Reality).
Most creation-myths have a quite simple (one-pillared) and mundane story: for example genesis just states that God created Reality (that of which all is part) in 6 days and rested on the 7
th
. The scientific rival to all such creation stories is a three-pillared theory – we can´t make it any simpler (we can´t make it one-pillared) and the same would be the case on exoplanets: they too can only break it down to three interconnected ideas/pillars/fundaments, so in thinking this way we share a common intellectual history with exoplanet civilizations advanced enough to figure out this existential theory.
On a test on this subject a question might be: “what are the three pillars of the existential theory?” – the question can´t be “what is the most important pillar in the existential theory?” All pillars are equally important but constitute as distinct ideas as E=mc
2
is from infinite size, or the separation-intertwinedness-opposition (fig. 3).
This three-pillared creation story – the sum of these three chapters – is built upon logic: it includes certain truths like “I think and I exist” (distinction/separation), its opposite (Reality for which we have three proofs for that it can´t be observed/seen/contemplated i.e. the size-time-diagram is infinite), E=mc
2
which unifies nothing/spacetime with existence/energymass, and the relationship between any two sizes (justification along the infinite size-range). Every one of these ideas relates very closely to Descartes´ certain truth, meaning we can be sure of the ideas themselves – and they together build up a minimalist existential theory which needs no further logic to explain everything there is.
Having an infinite size-range has a predictive quality to it too – it makes a prediction: there ought to be evolution (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar mass) somewhere in the diversity we see throughout even the known size-range.
Though as non-intuitive as the 3-pillar existential theory may be to our evolved brains who want a single conclusion, exoplanet civilizations have the same limits and biases as us: they too are stuck with three pillars in a single theory to make the theory explainable. Science is creating universal (exoplanet) neural pathways in our brains. We should embrace the fact that by being non-intuitive but true, this science wires our brain based on science and thus universally. It is the way (the wiring) that all planets are headed to if they´re into science. It´s a universal world-view. We´re thinking like aliens.
In current scientific debates the religious will argue that faith (in a dogma) is needed to (what they call) “understand” the existence of the universe. If confronted with my theory (these lectures) they´d have to agree that logic makes their God unnecessary as a pillar of creation. In the best case scenario God is simply a synonym for Reality (because Reality is “that of which all is part” and thus God ought to be part of it too, and all we know about Reality is that it is energymass in spacetime and separation in intertwinedness).
Having an explanation – the negative side of it is it being three-pillared and unintuitive, the positive side of it being that it accounts for all of Reality and predicts evolution – further justifies the saying “a God of the gaps” (meaning the more we understand the less we need God). Now all that remains to be understood – again in an unintuitive but identical to exoplanets -way – is how, on an infinite time-line, the Big Bang (denseness) recreates and fades away into sparseness (black holes removing energymass and dark energy creating more space until no galaxies are anymore visible).
Lecture 4
The beginning of the Big Bang
I have a hard time imagining how the universe can reach complete emptiness, but it wouldn´t be the first time the universe´s nature surpasses human intuition. In the history of science stars were observed to not move relative to one another on the night sky, and this was argued to prove that the size of the universe was much smaller than the now known size – it was argued that the universe would be “unreasonably big” if the stars didn´t seem to move relative to one another as the earth moved because they were so far away.
If only enough time is needed for the universe to become empty, then we get the starting scenario which is most reasonable: we start with emptiness (spacetime). Again, spacetime is emptier than our concept for it because we (and our concepts) are made of energymass.
If you move your hand one meter (from position 1 to position 2), the laws of nature that make your hand make sense were already in place in the space of position 2 before you moved your hand there. It´s not like the universe/spacetime was absurd in location 2 and only started to make sense regarding hands when you moved your hand there. We do not impact the laws of nature in such ways; instead the laws of nature are simultaneously and equally true at all locations and all times. In other words: Pythagoras’s theorem is true even in locations where there are no objects whatsoever, but the theorem is only applicable (to be applied) to triangles. In empty space there are no objects and thus no triangles, but Pythagoras´s theorem is true there anyhow – it does not suddenly become true (switch from being untrue to true) when a triangle is imagined or physically moved there. This applies to E=mc
2
too, which is just as much of a law of nature as Pythagoras´s theorem. E=mc
2
is true everywhere and always, though humans only apply (use) the equation in certain scenarios. Where triangles can be (in spacetime) there is also E=mc
2
. Laws of nature are fundamental and inherent in spacetime and do not come about depending on events (though our application/use of any particular equation is dependent on which event we´re analyzing).
There is distinction between the practical use of equations (to solve problems or understand a phenomenon) and the core nature of spacetime having laws of nature in it. Spacetime is a no-nonsense spacetime – we live in a rational (laws of nature-abiding) universe.
One law being E=mc
2
and another one being “if it is said it must exist” (meaning energymass can´t be mentioned in the laws of nature of spacetime without energymass existing), we get spacetime to summon energymass if the starting-point was complete emptiness. “If energymass is mentioned it must be summoned” (it is mentioned in E=mc
2
) is true because it would be a nonsense universe if it “talks” about energymass without there being any – just infinite space for eternity with laws of nature regarding energymass, but never any energymass appearing/being present. It would be a nonsense universe if energymass it mentioned but never exists. It would be akin to the universe telling lies (having all these rules like E=mc
2
but never applying them to anything), or the universe babbling gibberish (having inapplicable laws of nature).
Thus, E=mc
2
being a core property of spacetime itself and the “no gibberish”-rule applying, energymass must logically be summoned – but how and where? Extremely dense i.e. everywhere, in the smallest spaces, simultaneously. Why? Our starting-point is spacetime, which needs no prior justification because it is the opposite of existence: it doesn´t exist – it is emptier than our neurons make it out to be. In it Einstein´s theory of relativity is true, meaning that there is no center point (or in other words: all points are the center) so there is no center to the Big Bang. Another way of seeing it is that as soon as there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification), E=mc
2
became true in all locations (in the smallest spaces) simultaneously – no point in space was before another in having E=mc
2
be true in it. Spacetime having E=mc
2
as a core property has E=mc
2
be true everywhere simultaneously; once we have the launching-condition of empty spacetime, through E=mc
2
, energymass is summoned everywhere simultaneously.
This “everywhere” is all things within an event horizon, meaning that things moving away faster than the speed of light (due to dark energy/accelerating cosmic expansion) are not within our event
horizon: they are not part of what can be reasonably called “our 3-dimensional space” (from our location). Things are not part of our universe once their speed hits faster than the speed of light – and many locations, within the boundaries of their respective event horizons, will one day have all energymass moving away from them at speeds faster than the speed of light (this is just the observed fact of accelerating cosmic expansion). Such a finite space with no energymass within its event horizon (all energymass moving away faster than the speed of light) would constitute “completely empty space” i.e. our starting-point for the Big Bang (energymass being summoned due to E=mc
2
).
Consider an infinite size-range - it is made of energymasspacetime: if we draw it as the Y-axis on a diagram, there can´t be a region/length in it (such as the knowable size-range) which is completely empty forever. See fig. 6.
Because of the rules E=mc
2
and “if it is mentioned it must be summoned”/”no-nonsense universe” are true throughout the infinite size-range, there can´t be a region with just spacetime (with its laws of nature) because the laws of spacetime mention energymass; spacetime is inherently tied to and intertwined with energymass – existence and non-existence go together (at all sizes). There would be no logical breaking-point (a particular size) where energymasspacetime transitions into being just spacetime for a range of sizes and then transitions back into energymasspacetime; there is no logical breaking-point where the implications of E=mc
2
(the implication being: energymass and spacetime are in the same equation) stop to be true. The transition seen in fig. 6 is impossible (there is no “empty region”). Having an empty region would be akin to zooming into the decimals of pi and seeing no numbers for a specific array of decimals: 3.14159ÄÄÄÄ265359... The Ä´s can´t be there: it´s a continuous sequence of decimal numbers. There is no break/”empty region” in the continuous decimals of pi just as there is no region of the size-range that can be empty of energymass.
In this chapter I´ve written something akin to “
first
there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification unless you consider that the size-axis of the size-time-diagram is infinite),
then
there was E=mc
2
,
then
there was energymass summoned into the smallest spaces available (available = considered to be within an event horizon and empty)”. This harkens back to previous lectures´ talk about “alien logic” (how exoplanets think). To have it make sense to our brains we use the time-
distinctions “first, then and then” but the real distinction is not in time but in steps in a sequence of logic. In other words all the mentioned steps happened simultaneously to start the Big Bang: E=mc
2
was true as soon as there was spacetime, and as soon as there was that, energymass appeared as not to make the universe absurd (by it talking gibberish or it having an empty region like in fig. 6).
The end of the Big Bang
Telescopes observe that “space is being born” i.e. that the distances between clumps of energymass (galaxies) are getting larger, and at an accelerating pace too. Not only does the Hubble law state that an object a
million light
-
years
away would be receding from us at 21 km/sec and at double the distance twice the speed, but the law states that that speed (for example 21 km/sec a million light years away) is increasing. This is called accelerating cosmic expansion. It means that from our galaxy, when/if we look into the sky trillions of years in the future, we´d see no trace of any other galaxy let alone the cosmic microwave background (because their speeds have passed the speed of light and thus went beyond the event horizon). Once that object a million light years away from us which today is racing away at 21 km/sec reaches 299792 km/sec (the speed of light), it will pass from being within our event horizon to being outside our sphere of events.
This empties our universe or as Hitchens put it: “nothingness is coming”. Once that nothingness comes we have our starting point where we run through the logic of E=mc
2
–> “if it is mentioned it must exist/be summoned” (in order for the universe not to talk gibberish or the infinite size-range not to have a break in it) –> energymass begins as dense (because of relativity and because E=mc
2
is true everywhere simultaneously/equally).
We observe that nothingness (within event horizons) is coming, and beginning from nothingness there is unintuitive logic that has a predictive quality to it: the Big Bang should start dense. This theory works well with lecture 2´s proofs for that “there is more to Reality than can be represented” (the size-time-diagram is infinite) because size is essentially space, and space and time are intertwined into a single spacetime – hence: if size/space is infinite then time must be infinite too. In other words we have reoccurring Big Bangs interspersed along the time-axis of our size-time-diagram. As soon as a region bound by an event horizon becomes empty we have the universe´s no-nonsense-laws kicking in and E=mc
2
summons energymass (in the smallest sizes that are empty equally/simultaneously).
The sequence of consecutive Big Bangs´ beginnings (emptiness leading to energymass being summoned) and ends (accelerating cosmic expansion speeding things past a point´s event horizon and emptiness being summoned) are as infinite as the time-axis proved to be based on lecture 2´s proofs. Proving (in lecture 2) that spacetime is infinite fits perfectly with the reoccurring Big Bangs (when somethingness becomes emptiness and then emptiness summons somethingness).
There will in other words, between the beginning of a Big Bang and the end of that same Big Bang, be life within the conscious/human size-range (the different locations of that size already being infinitely many, see fig. 4).
Each size along the size-axis is defined as “3-dimensional infinite space” meaning there is infinitely much life with access to universal science (i.e. some version of this lecture-series), and within our region (bound by an event horizon) there is life between the beginning and end of Big Bangs. In addition I have hard to believe that a reproducing shape (and thus evolution) only occurs in only
one
size-range (the, for humans, knowable size-range) in an infinite size-range: there ought to be many sub-size-ranges as part of the infinite size-range where evolution occurs and can reach scientific knowledge. All life mentioned above, if they reach scientific understanding, would concur on the existential theory presented in these lectures (especially lecture 3 – the three pillars/foundations/ideas which together become a minimalist theory for why there is the infinite size-range of energymasspacetime in the first place).
This is not only exoplanet science – it is science between Big Bangs and it is science in regions of the size-axis far away (in size) from our knowable size-range. See fig. 7.
Summary
First we looked at Descartes’ ”thought exists” and ”the self exists”, claimed that it was two valid statements and pointed out the distinction between them. On the other side of the paper we wanted to represent anti-distinction (the opposite of distinction) defined as “that of which all is part” (Reality), and realized that since thinker/thought is stuck on the left side of the paper we can’t represent Reality. This is not only Kant’s “the thing is not the thing itself (the mental map is not the real territory)” but more importantly whatever cannot be taken to represent “that of which all is part” i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality.
All we know about Reality (atoms, humans, galaxies) fit into a size-time-diagram (every object has a size and a time), so the minimalist approach combining the above paragraph with this one is to use the first paragraph to prove that the size-time diagram has infinite
axes. This in turn leads to an existential theory which can be summed up as “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime” – and it has a predictive quality to it: somewhere in such an existence there would be a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape and thus we get reproduction/evolution.
So far we’ve looked at the theory of why size itself exists, why there is something rather than nothing – an existential theory beginning from certain truth and logically building its way up all the way to predicting evolution.
Part 2: Evolution
My explanation of evolution focuses on how important disease and bullying (power) was for evolution.
Power
means that
fish
were
fighting fish breeding more agressive fish = dinosaurs, then wolfpacks with an alpha male.
But even before and after those eras in evolution the rule of power was in play.
In part one we had an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime (including the intertwinedness-separation-opposition and the time-axis with repeating Big Bangs perpendicular to the size-axis) that predicts a reproducing shape i.e. a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape: reproduction in an infinite size-range.
This infinite size-range predicts reproduction.
Part one was about why there is a sizescale of energymasspacetime: the answers are that the sizescale is infinite and that energymass is in spacetime. It predicts that there should be a reproducing shape: say that it is a triangle which gathers surrounding lines into a similar triangle – then it has reproduced itself. The products of this reproduction obey three rules: directly when there was reproduction three rules came into play, I´ve listed them below as 1, 2, 3 but they are not in order (they came simultaneously):
1:
There is life and death: those who survive survive and those who die are not in the game anymore. “The surviving survive”. It´s so simple – we see it in everyday life today. But everything in evolution will come back to these three rules so we might as well do the banal and bring them up.
So directly when there was a reproducing shape - so in our part of the size-range a DNA-strand which split in the middle and became two DNA-strands – the copy either survived or died.
2: The second rule is that the number of offspring has significance. That is to say: if you get one child or five children or ten children, there is a difference between those numbers – and in evolution it´s a benefit to have more children. One can also have zero children, and that is approximately like being dead.
Some would say that evolution´s meaning (the main task of life) is to make more offspring – that it´s the scientific meaning of life – Nature´s meaning: to reproduce. But I would answer that evolution makes more offspring (that´s reproduction) and making more offspring gives evolutionary benefits, but Nature itself does not care – it does not care about whether we nuke ourselves or not. There is no God that looks upon us and cares. Even reproduction becomes meaningless in the larger perspective. But in evolution it has significance whether one has zero offspring or ten offspring.
Rule number two (number of offspring matters) just as simple as rule number 1 (that there is life and death; that some live and some die).
The third rule that appered... – well all three rules appeared simultaneously directly when there was reproduction in this sizerange. The third rule is that:
3: There is mutation in every generation-shift. Things change. It doesn’t make perfect copies. Your child (if you have one) is not an exact copy of yourself or your wife – it’s a mutation; a change.
These three rules – 1: that there is life and death, the surviving survive. 2: That there are different nuances in the number of offspring. 3: That there is mutation in every generation-shift – these three rules came into play directly when the first reproduction occurred. We will return to these three rules over and over again; they are like laws of nature that like God says shall work on life directly when the first life reproduces itself. These laws of nature didn’t exist before the first life reproduced itself – they were not active then. They became active directly when there was reproduction.
These are abstract laws that we will manufacture, then we have the physical reality of that in a puddle of water a strand of DNA – a cell – made copies/offspring. Then viruses came into the game and injected its own DNA into the ordinary cells, that is to say: hijacked their reproductive system to create virus-offspring. If this would´ve continued the ocean would´ve been filled with only viruses, so there has to be some next step which made it so that our type of life survived. But the viruses added a 4
th
law (one of these abstract laws)
and that is: if you can hijack someone else’s reproductive system to create your own offspring; if you can inject your DNA into somebody else´s cell so that it creates viruses – I call this “power”. We will return to this word when we for example look at dinosaurs (they became bigger because the men killed each other to get the women whom make offspring). This power-principle was one that came after the three first ones.
The first cells reproduced and we had these three rules, then viruses came and injected their DNA and used “power” to produce more viruses. Then we get an immune-system which kills viruses i.e. protects the original organism´s reproductive system from being hijacked by viruses. So the immune-system evolved to take back the reproductive principle (2: the number of offspring matters); for the fact that one should retain the reproductive capability for oneself – so that no virus can take it over. So power has a lot to do with the number of offspring – principle 4 has a lot to do with principle 2.
We have multicellular organisms with immune-systems, we have viruses around them – and it´s an arms-race between that the viruses mutate to overcome the immune-system and the immune-
system mutates to overcome the virus. Thus we have an evolutionary pressure on mutating the immune-system as much as possible as fast as possible (because the viruses mutate very quickly), and the best way to do that is to combine genes from two different organisms: a man and a woman. So sex has its beginning in viruses.
If this doesn´t make you feel comfortable contemplate this: the truth outweighs positive-thinking. But does one want to remove whatever spreads joy among people? Those who want to defeat the religious violence in the world (I think religion is the biggest unnecessary cause of hatred in the world) – one cannot defeat that without defeating all religiousness simultaneously. To want to defeat one part of religion but not the rest of it is like voting for the Republicans and Democrats simultaneously – it´s just unreal. Sadly one must remove the good to remove the evil. Meditation still remains and one can get a kind of anxietylessness from some thoughts still but in the big picture there are no reasons that support them anymore – it´s just a brain-trick that one does.
In our evolutionary story we had an immune-system which mutates, wants more mutations – we get two genders. Then men begin to war with each other (because, metaphorically speaking, women can produce offspring once a year while men can produce it every day – we have an imbalance; asymmetry). Why is it always men that start wars? It began with the first fish – we had multicellular life in our story so far, so they became a bit bigger, could swim around – we get fish: it´s easier to find food then and easier to move around. Directly when there were two genders there was one fish which evolved to use its teeth for killing other male fish. The first aggressor of course got the most offspring because there were no other men around. That´s why men go to war: they can produce offspring with so many women while a woman has no benefit from having 1000 men.
There´s a caveat to
this once we get to caveman tribes/wolf-packs where a woman secretly wants many men to provide resources to her child, but at least in the era between fish and dinosaurs the picture was simply based on asymmetric reproductive rates.
So then the male fish grow more aggressive, the child who is the biggest and has the sharpest teeth kills the other male fish, has the most offspring; and in the next generation, again: the child with the most aggression and biggest muscles gets the most offspring – that´s how we get to dinosaurs and T-rex. We had males competing/fighting with each other and that´s why T-rex is so large. That is, again, the power-principle: just like viruses took over the reproductive system from the first cells, T-rex takes away the reproductive system from his rivals by killing them. So this principle number 4 (power) lives on – it has caused/causes so much: it causes the first viruses, it causes T-rex, that fish become aggressive, that we get two genders (by viruses getting power – so we wanted to counter that power by immune-systems i.e. two genders).
These dinosaurs then, just like humans don´t seem to have (sarcasm), any concept of preserving natural resources – so they would´ve eaten up all their trees and not had any food left. But on our planet it seems to have been a meteor-strike which wiped them out, but on exoplanets i.e. overall in this evolutionary series of evolutionary pressures causing various principles (first the three first principles, then the 4
th
principle, immune-systems, two-genderedness, bigger
fish, fights between the fish, dinosaurs). The dinosaurs ate their natural resources and all large life dies - so only small rat-like/squirrel-like life-forms live on.
The trees grow back up – we get monkeys.
Groups tend to, in a fight – if it´s a group against an individual (one against many) – the group tends to win. So we monkeys form groups, fighting together for food against individualists. The individualists lost.
So we got this - or had it from the get-go (just like with the first aggressors) – instinct that makes us want to be highest in the hierarchy and thereby get all the women. Power again. But this time it´s a kind of human power – we saw power when viruses took over the reproductive systems, we saw power when dinosaurs outcompeted their rivals (the men), we see power when a bully goes to the top of the hierarchy, pushes down the other men – and the women want the bully´s resources (he has the most stuff) so they´re attracted to him, so he gets the most offspring – out of his offspring the one that is best at getting power the one that gets most offspring.
The reason for why the brain grew so fast during the past 100 000 years was because we used the brain to plan for how to climb upward in the hierarchy. The reproductive benefits coming from being high-status in the hierarchy were so great comparing to being low-status that this put great selection-pressure on bigger brains.
Now we basically have caveman living in hierarchical societies, we have kings, aristocrats and slaves – and that is how the world was 5000 years ago. The kings build monumental architecture (pyramids and such). Then someone focused on a random word – so someone focused on what we talked about in part 1: Reality (that of which all is part) and realized one cannot see it (because we should be part of it, or the other two proofs for not being able to see all there is to Reality) and thus they invented the word God: it is one, one cannot see it – we have the dawn of monotheism.
Someone random-focused on the word “soul/self” too and realized one gets less anxiety by making a distinction between the body
one sees in ones imaginations
21.12
Author
yonis
Posted on
30/11/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Latest version of my book
Del 2: Evolutionsteorin
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/del2-interse-evolution.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
14/11/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Del 2: Evolutionsteorin
Lecture 4
lecture-4
Author
yonis
Posted on
10/11/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Lecture 4
Few pages (Var vi är – where we are; the existential theory)
Var vi är
Varje bok som försöker få med sig alla i att ha en enda världsbild bör börja med Descartes säkra sanning. I mitten av 1600-talet omgavs Rene Descartes av multipla ”hur gjorden skapades”-teorier, den mess påtalade för honom var den kristna ”jorden skapades på 6 dagar och Gud vilade på den 7e”. Descartes, enligt mig, var på ett ateistiskt spår i.om. att han tvivlade på alla de skapelsemyter som fanns runtomkring honom. Han var före sin tid i.om. att han både uppfann koordinatsystemet och ”cogito ergo sum” (”jag vet helt säkert att jag tänker och att jag finns”). Här har vi en man som klurade ur att hans egna existens är 100% säker att tro på, och han gjorde detta genom att kasta bort all kunskap som han inte var 100% säker på. Man kan antingen säga att han gjorde tankeexperimentet att han möjligtvis var en hjärna i en skål som matades med elektriska signaler så att den trodde att den hadde en kropp osv, eller att en allsmäktig demon lurade honom i allt han kan luras i, eller det som skedde i filmen The Matrix. Det som kvarstod var att hans ”jag” existerade eftersom att bli lurad innebär att existera; det finns någon som blir lurad för denna någon att bli lurad i allt han kan bli lurad i. Likaså finns tankevärlden eftersom [att bli lurad] är att tänka; tankar finns om de så är lurade eller inte. Alltså uppfann Descartes ”jaget existerar” och ”tanken existerar”. Detta kan utvidgas till att separation (mellan tanken och jaget) existerar; de är två separata ting. Nu har vi alltså jaget, tanken och separationen som helt säkra sanningar. Målet med denna bok är att övertyga alla om en enda världsbild (som står i konflikt med andra skapelseberättelser, Adam och Eva, osv), och hittills håller alla med om det som står gällande Descartes uppfinning. Den här boken är byggd så att vi går enligt logikens metoder, steg för steg, från Descartes säkra sanning till att förklara var vi är, vad vi är osv (de stora frågorna).
Från Descartes tre sanningar (inkl separation som är en av dem) kan man gå längs två spår: ena alternativet är att fråga sig vad motsatsen till separation är och definera den som ”det som allt är del av”. Andra alternativet är att rita det koordinatsystem Descartes uppfann med två axlar: storlek på ena axeln och tid på andra (ett storleks-tids-diagram). Båda vägar är direkta spinoffs från Descartes säkra sanning om att han tänker och han finns.
Om man frågar sig vad motsatsen till Descartes separation är, så blir svaret meningen ”det som allt är del av” där ordet ”det” bör bördan av att hänvisa till någonting som inkluderar allt. Ingen separation existerar i den – den är motsatsen till separation. Vi kommer återkomma till den i framtiden då vi frågar oss huruvida vi kan se/röra/percipiera den ifall observation är separation (och separation ej får finnas i den). I forntida skrifter kallades den ”Gud” eller ”Verkligheten” eftersom dess definition är ”det som allt är del av (inkl. Gud)”.
Vi har idén vars definitioner är ”motsatsen till separation” och ”det som allt är del av” och vi kan kalla den ”Gud”, ”Verkligheten” eller vad vi vill. I framtiden kommer vi härleda att vi inte kan se/observera/percipiera den som sådan (som dellös), så att ha ett ord för den är lite som när judarna vägrar säga ”yahwe” om sitt mest övergripande koncept. Att ha ett ord för den skapar bara förvirring eftersom vi är vana vid att se varje ord, men nu har vi ett koncept som vi i framtiden kommer härleda inte kan ses (eftersom observation är separation och vi ”försöker se” motsatsen till separation).
Det andra spåret som börjar direkt från Descartes är att rita ett Cartesiskt coordinatsystem med en vertikal axel och och horisontell axel: på den vertikala axeln representerar man storlek (kosmologi högst upp, människans storlek i mitten, kvantfysik längst ned) och på den horisontella axeln representerar man tid. Detta går att göra eftersom Descartes hittade separation dvs rum i vilken man kan rita abstraka diagram såsom storleks-tids-diagrammet. Allt man känner till har en storlek och en tid dvs passar in i någon punkt i det kvadratformade diagrammet.
Ur Descartes säkra sanning kan man alltså, via separation, fråga A) vad är motsatsen till separation?, och B) rita ett rektangulärt storleks-tids-diagram. Dessa A) och B) saknar funktion hittills, men kommer kombineras så att de bygger upp varandra.
Where we are
In the previous pages I contrast Einstein (the inventor of spacetime and energymass – and thus energymasspacetime as a synonym of Reality). With Descartes’ certain truth of self and separation between observer and object and object/thought. Einstein symbolizes intertwinedness/[the oneness of Reality]/[energymasspacetime as a single word/concept] or [God if you have that vocabulary]. Separation is the opposite of that wordless energymasspacetime; the jews call it Yahwe but don’t say the word because observation is separation and separation isn’t in observerless intertwinedness oneness / [opposite of separation]. We are in the observers’ realm inevitably (there are two realms: one which we are in by being thought-bound describers. And the other realm is needless to try to set words to, but E=mc2 did it by joining energymass and spacetime (c is spacetime/speed).
I also, in addition to putting Einstein and Descartes as opposites (opposing realms – we are in one realm), the first paper states that there is an existential theory (cosisting of three ideas). The three ideas are like points on a PowerPoint:
– separation and intertwinedness (that same intertwinedness we can’t see by being observers)
–	energymass with spacetime (E=mc2 connects them together; energymass is all movement and body, spacetime is the space your body occupies and time is the 4th dimension).
–	an infinite sizerange.
That the sizescale is infinite is like a court case with three (two major) arguments for that the sizescale is infinite:
–	with our human brain, that brain can notice the fact that it cannot see Reality/[that of which all is part]/the opposite of separation. Then ask whether there is a maximum or minimum size in that (I propose) infinite sizerange? It doesn’t make sense to ask for size nor maximum range because they’d have to be separate (period). Separate from anything. Separation itself makes a “maximum size” impossible.
–	but it might be different in the universe itself, so we ask the same question: does separation exist by there being a maximum/minimum size in our known sizescale (which ranges from cosmology, through astronomy, down to anatomy, cellular biology and quantum physics at the smallest known.
–	a third proof for that the sizerange is infinite, now having gone through both the subjective and the objective proofs, is the least convincting truth: that you can’t put yourself in front of you. Since what you are observing is supposed to include everything in it, you can’t possibly be outside it observing it. Again we repeat that opposition/separation/”outsideness” is not in the unseeable Reality (defined as energymasspacetime)/[that of which all is part].
A pseudo-mneumonic for remembering this is: that of which all is part (Reality) cannot be observed (because obserservation is separation). It proves that there is more to Reality than a brain, a computer or any other object can represent. Not even what the brain does: uses less matter (the flesh of the brain) to represent something like a galaxy (much more mass). In a thought experiment we can let the smallest known particle or bit of space, represent the largest known or more. The “more” is important because we are allowed to represent anything, even infinitey minus 1 much. There is more to Reality than can be contemplated.
Since Descartes certain truth lets us draw in the separation that is inevitably there (by virtue of lacking that intertwinedness we spent so many synonyms on already). We can draw both a world as we see it, or we can abstractly draw a size-time-diagram (Cartesian coordinate system – look how far ahead of his time his two great ideas would unite) with infinity-symbols at all four corner of the rectangle (the size-time-diagram is a rectangle – something for universal scientific merchendize).
Size-time justification exists between any two arbitrarily chosen points in time, or sizes in the size-range. There’s a size-time-reason for anything and everything that happens. The size-time-diagram has infinitely many points available because there is more than we can ponder i.e. the size-time-diagram is infinite.
Since we touched on Descartes and Einstein being opposites (in their ideas of course), how does one prove that ones theory is correct? It connects back to itself – if you are well enough to make the associations. For example: the infinity of the abstract space gives a natural intuition that this existential theory (here the sizerange, but it is connected to the two other ideas which hold the rest of the theory, namely evolution and the brain, on its foundation). The foundation is three ideas: separation-intertwinedness-opposition, energymass-spacetime unity and the proven fact that the sizescale is infinite. It can be drawn using infinity symbols given our limited brain and limited diagram to draw the infinity symbols in. Drawing on Descartes and Einstein we can prove why there is a sizescale – and time is also infinite, the Big Bang regenerating using logic. The logic is the following (without time/spacing in between):
– our universe expands as black holes remove energymass from 3-dimensional space (the curvature of space is infinite). When no more mass is present in our 3-dimensional space – and mass is needed for Einstein’s E=mc2 not to be absurd.
–	Emptienss with its laws of nature (including geometrical ones applying to mass and E=mc2) would be absurd if mass is mentioned in its laws but would’ve “be observed (as a ritual)”, i.e. the universe must summon mass if there is no mass in order for E=mc2 to remain true.
–	this obviously, since there are empty small spaces in our universe, applies to when there is complete emptiness i.e. when all star-system have swiwelled into the supermassive black hole in the galaxy center. There is in other words a long time of no place to bear life in the history of the universe; life exists only in the beginning and the vast majority of timespans between Big Bangs have as their only event black holes swallowing lifeless spacerocks and stars. The fuel in stars that result in supernovae will be reborn into new stars over and over again, but once only iron and other lifeless mass remains, there will be no fuel for new stars. After that comes the black holes swallowing all that used-to-bear-life mostly iron mass. That might take a while longer than there was life in the universe – the universe is after all not geared for life but generates it for a rational purpose: the sizescale is infinite (and of energymass in spacetime).
How do I prove this is how the size-axis re-creates a Big Bang every now and then? For one, since its “spacetime” and we drew infinity-symbols on our abstract size-time-diagram in every corner of the rectangle. Time and space, though different axises on our diagram, are united thanks to Einstein (into spacetime).
All this is rather more beautiful and complicated than “God created earth in 6 days and rested on the 7th” – its a totally different kind of creation story. It answers the Big Question: why are we? We have a three-idea existential theory part of which is the infinity of the sizerange; and we know there is more than we can contemplate i.e. the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all its 4 corners.
To some readers it seems like I´m preaching to the choir, but think of the debate still going on with people claiming the earth is 6000 years ago. Isn’t an infinite sizescale a more convincing creation story? It assumes there is “intelligence” in the cosmos just as there is logos in our perception, but as a creation story: present them with my current work and even as they tend to argue against, they will have to admit that the earth is not 6000 years old. The whole God-debate boils down to whether God is exactly synonymous with Reality/energymasspacetime/[that of which all is part]. We can through rationaly find the phrase/idea [that of which all is part] as useful, and once we welcome it into our vocabulary, God must be part of  [that of which all is part].
That of which all is part also is called energymasspacetime and a size-time diagram is the minimal you need to understand why we are.
Those who believe in God must have never heard the phrase [that of which all is part], and that all we know about this Reality fits in a size-time-diagram. [That of which all is part] is also the synonym for energymasspacetime/Reality, which’s existence is supported by three ideas: separation-intertwinedness, energymass-spacetime, an infinite sizescale.
The debate is between sentences like “God created the universe” versus my complex abstract theory. [That of which all is part] having a God outside it; an infinite sizescale with infinite time with a God outside it. I prefer God being a synonym for Reality. That’s Einstein’s God.
That leaves the Adam and Eve-story untouched as of yet, but having a reproducing shape in some size range in an infinite sizerange…
Author
yonis
Posted on
24/10/2016
28/10/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Few pages (Var vi är – where we are; the existential theory)
Posts navigation
Page
1
Page
2
Next page
Search for:
Search
Recent Posts
From Certain Truth to Dinosaurs (with Maan and Marwan)
War and Boredom
2 Nobel Prizes
V 2-4
Existential theory (2)
Recent Comments
Archives
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
Categories
Dagbok
Old
The book + diagrams
Trashcan
Trey
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.org
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Proudly powered by WordPress

Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen – A world-unifying world-view
Skip to content
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
A world-unifying world-view
From Certain Truth to Dinosaurs (with Maan and Marwan)
Author
yonis
Posted on
05/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on From Certain Truth to Dinosaurs (with Maan and Marwan)
War and Boredom
War-and-Boredom
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen, Sweden
27
War and Boredom
The title of this book refers to that it is hard to get through this book. The reason why this new science (that I present in this book) hasn’t been discovered until I did is because part 1 of this book gives a sense of meaninglessness toward the Universe and part 2 deals with evolution in a depressing way because the main trend is “power”.
Writing it gave me anxiety and reading it gives many people anxiety.
But the question is: does everyone agree on it? If they do, that changes the Israel-Palestine-conflict where the parties of God are vetoing
regarding the borders of
the
“holy land”; it changes religious extremism and the wars fought over it. Religion is the biggest cause for hatred
in the world, as Hitchens said. My book
is
a minimalist theory
that
encompasses all one needs to understand
Everything: existence (why there is size itself) and
evolution – even thoughts about the future of humanity/evolution.
Even though there comes a sense of meaninglessness from knowing the existential theory and a sense of depression from knowing evolution, there is
a sense of
honor in having the right world-view.
Most importantly, the religious wars - ISIS/Israel/etc. - can be demolished by a world-view which everyone agrees on. War only continues because it is boring to learn and teach the course I present in this book. Hence the book´s name: War and Boredom, or: how boredom (toward science) keeps the wars continuing.
Not only can this book end wars, but it can unify people so that they feel more friendliness toward each other – science is a language and speaking the same language makes it easier to make friends. Having the same associations between concepts (a scientific world-view) gives people a lot to agree on, they´ll “speak the same language”.
If anyhow you get too bored to study further, there are three parts to this book (1: the existential theory, 2: evolution, 3: the dawn of religion), and they’re written with different styles. You may jump to either part directly.
Lecture 1
Descartes
One of the aims of this course is to get EVERYONE to agree so that they have the same associations between scientific concepts.
There is no other proper way to accomplish this goal than by starting with certain truth, which was found by Descartes in the 1600s. He lived in a time where they believed in demons, Gods etc. so he postulated a thought experiment where he assumed an almighty demon was fooling him in everything he could be fooled in: what would remain as certain truth – what could he not be fooled in?
If he was being fooled, where would still be a “he” (or self) there to be fooled, meaning that the self certainly exists. A self is necessary for a self to be fooled.
Descartes had thus concluded his own existence.
Being fooled is thinking – thus thought exists. “There is thought” Descartes concluded as certain truth. The word “fooling” represents a thought-process.
Descartes found the starting-position for any inquiry about truth: we can know certainly that thinker and thought exists.
Distinction exists (a logical conclusion from the above)
Looking at what we´ve found as certain truth so far “from above” (meta), we can take the next logical step – adding a third factoid to our 2-statement (A and B above) starting position: that there is distinction (
between
thinker and thought). The fact that thinker and thought are two separate entities concluded to be certain truth
s
through two
different
logical pathway
s
lets us conclude that “distinction exists”
. There are what Chinese philosophy calls “the ten thousand things” (referring to the world) – there are at least two (three if we include “distinction” as th
e third thing) certain entities, and empirically we know there are “ten thousand things” (not taking the number 10 000 literally but just referring to multiplicity).
First universal diagram
We can draw the thinker and thought and distinction between them as two dots with a line between them on a piece of paper (fig. 1).
Now we have something all religions agree on
– we´ve drawn up ideas and associations between them. Everyone ought to have the same associations (explanatory thoughts) between the concepts we´ve looked at so far.
We have, if you will – in figure 1 – a universal diagram.
Reality
We have the capability to conglomerate many separate entities under the rubric of a single category. If we use this capability to collect the “ten thousand things” (distinct entities) we´ve found so far into a single thing, we ought to give that thing a word/name. Its definition can be “that of which all is
part” and “the opposite of separation/distinction”. I will use the word Reality to refer to this all-encompassing thing.
In lecture 2 I will present three proofs for that “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, but for now we can draw (adding to figure 1) a dot with a cross over it – the cross to symbolize that the dot itself is a false representation of Reality because we (the observer/self/thinker) should be part of that dot. See fig 2.
Thinking about what we´ve got so far
Thinking about what we´ve got so far (fig. 2) it’s a bundle of associations which make universal inter-religious (all religions agree on it) knowledge with both words and pictures.
In the next lecture I present why the line in fig 2 (see fig 3) represents the opposition/antagonism/disagreement/contraposition/divergence/variance between the two sides of the paper; between “thinker and thought” on one side of the paper and “Reality (that of which all is part; the opposite of separation)” on the other side of the paper.
Worth noting now is that the left side of the paper represents separation/distinction whilst the right side of the paper represents the opposite of separation/distinction – both are legitimate ideas: thinker and thought – and distinction – is certain truth based on Descartes and we all know which idea we refer to when talking about the all-encompassing [that of which all is part] Reality.
In the next lecture we will talk about why the line in fig. 3 makes it so that we can´t see Reality – I will present three proofs like in a crime case, and we will talk about what we can see if we can´t see Reality.
Making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far
1
See fig. 1 again: it´s our starting-point and the thinking that occurs in it happens in Descartes “realm of mind”; it is the mind´s realm (the left side of the paper) in which the thinking happens, and one thing we talk about is Reality on the right side of the paper in fig 3. Since the line in fig. 3 represents both the legitimacy of the ideas on both sides of the paper, and simultaneously the opposition between separation/distinction (on the left side of the paper) and [the opposite of separation/distinction] on the right side of the paper. That opposition is important and I will show its significance in lecture 2.
2
Starting from Descartes realm (of if you will: assuming that all we know is what we know for certain), we have the capability to state that there is a single Reality of which all is part – so even though we see separation we must grant that that separation (all entities) fits into a category we call Reality. There is a unifying whole even though the human mind (Descartes realm) is limited in its ways when it tries to contemplate Reality.
Not only is there the map-territory distinction (which will be presented as one out of three proofs in lecture 2), but there is also a more fundamental opposition between distinction and its opposite (there is a more fundamental opposition between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3). Not only are we stuck in the map-territory-distinction-realm but we also can conclude that no representation (regardless of the mind) is equal to Reality (on a more fundamental level than the map-territory-problem).
Representation is done in the brain using neurons and in a computer using electrons, but there is no reason why the most distant atom or quark couldn´t be proposed to be a symbol for [that of which all is part] – and even in that brainless scenario we will see in lecture 2 that “that of which all is part cannot be represented”. The map-territory-distinction is just proof/evidence number two in lecture 2 (for that we cannot see Reality and thus, since we do see/represent something, there must be more to Reality than can be represented i.e. the size-time-diagram (presented in lecture
2) is infinite along both axes.
Proof 3 in lecture 2 removes the brain from the equation and still proves that there is more to Reality than can be seen/represented/symbolized (using any means/any method – even without a brain), and since some representation is obviously (since we know that there are minds) possible, there must be more than can be represented/contemplated i.e. the size-axis is infinite and the time-axis is infinite in that two-axis diagram.
3
Both sides of the paper in fig. 3 are legitimate ideas. But still they are opposites (separation on one side and the opposite of separation on the other side). How can two derived-from-logic sides of the paper be opposites but still both be legitimate?
Usually opposition – like between Democrats and
Republicans – means that one is right and the other is wrong; they can´t both simultaneously be right: you can´t meaningfully vote for both parties at the same time.
The case is different between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3: both sides are right and they are opposites.
There is a single Reality and there is multiplicity in distinction.
What does this mean? That there is more to the size-time-diagram than anything could represent – any representation fails (you can think of some examples/suggestions for how to represent [that of which all is part]/[the opposite of separation]) – and thus the axes on the size-time-diagram are infinite. This is a hither to unpresented fact in science – it is new science: some of the best scientists ignorantly believe that the size-range is limited/finite.
4
We have quite a few associations and symbols in fig. 3 which must be agreed upon, and here I´m using the word “must” in the sense that “by the rules of logic X must be true”. Other civilizations throughout the infinitely many galaxies there are use the exact same ideas (but in a different language) and have the same associations between them (that there are infinitely many galaxies is derived from that the size-axis in the size-time-diagram is infinite). There is distinction as the third truth to be added to Descartes two fundamental truths (thinker and thought exist), and all that is opposed to (on the other side of the paper in fig. 3) to the all-encompassing Reality which is defined using at least two definitions: that of which all is part and the opposite of separation.
I´m tri-lingual but I write the same ideas and associate them in the same ways no matter which language I write in – its universal science beginning from certain truth. On other planets that have civilizations my writings in this book ought to match up quite near to the writings creating the same lecture series based on universal science that I´m creating
– “alien”/exo-planet
lecture series proceed, beginning from certain fact, through logical steps as I do.
5
[Thinker and thought] (certain truth) and thus distinction/separation are associated through negation/opposition to the right side of the paper in figure 3: Reality. The left side is not the right side just like separation is not its opposites. Both being legitimate ideas, though, connects them in the way that thinker and thought (and all other distinct entities) are in the category Reality.
Even though Reality and distinction are opposites, distinction dwells in (as a sub-entity within the category) Reality.
The associations between the left and right sides of the paper in figure 3 are both united through the notion “opposition” and through the notion that distinction is inherent in Reality (Reality being the opposite of distinction
because we have all-encompassing and its opposite: composite parts).
6
It is certainly true that all is part of a single Reality; but it is equally true that in every observation there is an observer and hence distinction (between thinker and thought). We see separate entities is as true as that the self that we are is not in front of us – but everything we see (thought/object) is in front of us.
That is evidence 1 in lecture 2 (not a proof, but a mere suggestion/evidence that [that of which all is part cannot be observed] and thus there is more to Reality than our concept of [infinitely much].
All we know about Reality has two properties: a size and a time. Size and time are two axes on a diagram, and thus all we know fits into the size-time-diagram (every object or location in space
has a size and time).
There is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram because all suggested representors for Reality fail
(for three reasons taken up in lecture 2).
7
All
bundles of associations in this chapter “making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far”
are written in order to create some universal brain structures (universal because science is the same everywhere (on all exo-planets), and their brains make the same associations too eventually). It´s not some random bundle of associations nor did I randomly present random ideas.
I assume the brain structure created by understanding this book is a replica of something derived from science; a replica of brain structures on the infinitely many other civilization-bearing planets. It´s a universal “ideology”, if you will.
Everyone has a possibility of sharing it in agreement – and future lectures will add a whole lot of complexity to it; agreement tends to build friendship so study is a way of bringing more peace to the world.
Once the full world-view is presented throughout this book, it´s a way of pacifying the world.
8
We have two brain-halves: one linguistic and one visual. So far we´ve both drawn pictorial representations and connected words – both brain-halves have been working. The connections across corpus collosum (which sits between the brain-halves and connects them) that connect a linguistic narrative/explanation to the pictorial representations are one day found in all humans thanks to science. Our brains are becoming more as science has a propensity to make them be.
This course itself, since it begins with certain truths and builds upon it logically, is a universal course (to the best of my ability).
The brain cells that constitute the negation (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 3) or opposition are not the same kind of cells (they are inhibitory neurons) that connect thinker with though as both being certain truths (but the thinker is not the thought and thus has inhibitory cells making that brain-structure work too
(what you are is not in front of you;
what you are is not visible).
Since both Reality and [what you are]/self/observer/thinker are invisible the brain might erroneously and spontaneously try to associate them, so a brain-structure is needed to inhibit that association (and replace it with a more complex explanation). That spontaneous but erroneous association is something all thinking animals throughout the universe evolved to do, and the inhibition of it through culture/civilizing/science is universally available within complex enough civilizations throughout the universe.
As you can see the brain structures responsible for doing this thing are quite complex, but also universal and thus accessible to all humans, and predictably will someday be in all humans (fostering agreement, thus friendship, thus peace).
Lecture 2
Perceive, apprehend, notice are synonyms for our representing ability, but I will use the word “see” or “observe” to refer to all of these. The goal of this lecture is to prove the statement “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, Reality being defined as “that of which all is part”. In other words: we cannot see Reality, and thus there is more to Reality than even can be contemplated (i.e. infinitely much).
I will build this lecture like a criminal court case: I will present three proofs for that we cannot see Reality i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated i.e. (since we can contemplate anything (right or wrong)) Reality is infinite.
Since anything/everything we know about Reality has some size and time, it fits into a size-time-diagram. See fig. 4.
In fig. 4 size is represented along the vertical axis and time along the horizontal axis. The objects humans see in everyday life (from the horizon to a single cell as one “pixel” in our visual field) are marked in “the human range”.
See fig 5.
In fig. 5 I´ve drawn the same diagram as in fig. 4 but this time with infinity-symbols in each corner of the squareical size-time-diagram. Two infinite axes become a square.
Proof number 3 in our “court case” for proving that the size-time-diagram (Reality) is infinite has us imagine the unobservable separatenessless Reality and ask whether there is a maximum or minimum size to/in it (a maximum/minimum being separateness while we are talking about the opposite of separation). This is again to confirm that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes.
The line we drew in fig. 4 was for separating the two sides of the paper; opposing “thinker and thought” (distinction) with its opposite: one all-encompassing non-distinction Reality. That opposition-line is what this lecture is about since it proves that the two sides of the paper are separate/opposing realms and we are stuck in one realm as long as we are observers (because observation is separation/distinction (thinker and thought)).
Proving that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes is new science because it poses the question: what happened before the Big Bang (14 billion years ago), and it presents one pillar of our existential theory: that each size is the reason for each next and previous size, and the size axis is infinite, meaning the “beginning” of the relationship between sizes keeps retreating into infinity the more we contemplate the range of the size axis.
When I presented fig. 4 for the first time I drew a cross over the dot symbolizing Reality for the plain reason that we (as observers) should be part of that dot, and by the very nature of us being separate (and the dot representing the opposite of separation) we should draw a cross over it symbolizing that we cannot see it.
The main proof though is that even if all observers were dead there´d still be, inherent and fundamental in nature, the opposition between distinction and distinction´s opposite (the two sides of the paper in fig. 4). The line is an opposition-line and it is more fundamental than being dependent on humans/observers – it refers to all representation whether it’s using/including humans or not. I am, in other words, not talking about the map-territory distinction (which symbolizes that humans have mental maps and not the real world per se; like Kant said: we have “the thing” and not “the thing itself”). Proof 2 – the opposition-line between the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 – is not subjective: it is true that we live with the map-territory-distinction but even if I died there´d still be separate things (chairs separate from cups), that kind of separation is not dependent on me/observers. Simultaneously the flipside of the coin (the other side of the paper in fig. 4) is true too: all is one single Reality (the opposite of separation). Proof 2, in other words, should not be interpreted as signifying the map-territory distinction (human subjectivity) but instead a fundamental opposition in the universe.
If we do not see Reality, then what do we see? Everything we see fits into the size-time-diagram, and since the opposition-line in fig. 4 shows that there is a fundamental rule that states, in 3 different proofs, that Reality is infinite / there is more than can even be contemplated / there is more than even non-subjective representation can represent.
Proof number 1 is really weaker than a “proof” – it´s more like evidence. It wouldn´t hold up in a court but it is a way of stating what the other proofs too point towards. Proof 1 is what we saw when presenting figure 4: any dot representing Reality is an incorrect representation because the observer should be part of the object – the thinker should be part of the thought. It denies Cartesian separation and thus is untrue, meaning that anything we draw on the right side of the paper in fig. 4 is incorrect.
We can contemplate anything: we can speculate about what´s smaller than quantum physics, or even what´s smaller than that, etc. into infinity. We are probably wrong, but any contemplation/representation counts as a contemplation – and since we know that, whether right or wrong as our contemplations may be, there is more to Reality than can be contemplated, it follows
that there must be infinitely much to Reality. Since all we know about Reality fits into a size-time-diagram, the minimalist approach is to state that it´s the size-time-diagram that is infinite.
This warrants two new words: the knowable/known size-range and the infinite size-range. The knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range. Since Einstein unified space (size) and time, one cannot be infinite without the other one being the same. Science today doesn´t know whether there was a “before” to the Big Bang or not (whether time was created at the Big Bang), but now we know that the Big Bang is just an event on an infinite time axis. In a future lecture we will talk about how/why the Big Bang recreates (happens over and over).
We talked about universal diagrams (and universal brain-structures) in lecture 1. The size-time-diagram is one major universal diagram. A lot of detail can be added to it because all fields of science fit into it. The infinity-symbols on each axis of the squareical diagram are drawn, based on science, on exo-planets with advanced enough civilizations.
This lecture is about proving that [that of which all is part] (the opposite of separation) i.e. Reality cannot be observed/represented, and that this fact is true irrespective of whether we are observers or dead, and applying this to the size-time-diagram (which gets its infinity-symbols into the squareical diagram).
Proof number 2 (the main proof) is the oppositional approach between Reality and distinction, and it is not subjective because Reality and Reality´s opposite exist even if we were dead. Proof number 3 is about imagining (even though no imagination is it) Reality as a big gray (because energymass is white and spacetime is black) solid, in which we know no observer should be (because observation is separation) – does it have separation i.e. a biggest and a smallest size? No, because such distinctions are not in the opposite of distinction (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 4).
I´ve mentioned universal associations in the brain / exo-planet science, so talking about the size-time-diagram we can add more universal notions to it: why did I draw upwards on the size axis as larger and downward as smaller? Why is the time-axis horizontally drawn instead of vertically? The diagram works even if we would define the vertical axis as time and the horizontal axis as size – so why do we draw size vertically and time horizontally? Is it universal i.e. on other planets or just a human convention like writing from left to right in English-speaking countries and right to left in Arabic-speaking countries?
Evolution has it so that during the history of science telescopes look upward and microscopes look downward. This would be the case on other planets too: they turn their heads upward to see the large and downward (onto a table) to see the small; the opposite can´t be true on any planet. Thus we get the size axis´ standard (of upward being larger) from evolution / the history of science. I use the word “standard” because it comes from evolution rather than being more fundamentally hard-wired into the universe such as the fact that the size-time-diagram is a square with infinity symbols. That the size-time-diagram is a square is not a standard – it is something stronger than that. The fact that we represent time on the vertical axis (and upward as larger) comes from a weaker source: tradition (even though that same tradition is true on all planets; evolution, in this regard, happens the same on all planets that end up with civilizations).
We thus have added standards or weak conventions (derived from history) in addition to having strong diagrams like the size-time-diagram being a square. The distinction between the two is made based on science and is thus made on exo-planets.
Scientists are looking for exo-planets that bear civilizations. If the size-range is infinite – as we´ve proven that it is – then each particular size (like the human range in fig. 5) is infinite too; if the largest is infinitely large then there is, considering the size of a human, an infinite distance in any direction that that human could find itself in. This makes civilizations on other planets a must, not an assumption. The known/knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range, and within the known size-range there is a range in which evolution occurs (between the smallest cells and the biggest organisms), and since we´ve proven that there are infinitely many objects within/of that size-range, then there must be infinitely many locations in which evolution occurs.
In the next lecture we will bind together the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 (distinction and distinction´s opposite; “thinker and thought” opposing Reality) with E=mc
2
(energymasspacetime) and with the infinity of the size-time axes, into a single existential theory which is a rival to “God created earth in 6 days…” The existential theory is a minimalist account for why there is a sizescale in the first place, and why there is something (energymass) rather than nothing (spacetime). It reminds me of this passage: “HITCHENS: In other words, as the great physicist Laplace said when he demonstrated his working model (his orrery, as it’s called) of the solar system to the emperor and Napoleon said, “Well I see there’s no God in this system,” and Laplace said, “Well, Your Majesty, it works without that assumption.””
In this chapter I´ve presented three proofs for that the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in it i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated; we do represent something but however we choose to represent (even representations that can be proposed as thought-experiments if we were dead) we do not represent Reality i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality. Are there any counter-arguments saying that the size-time-diagram is finite? I built this lecture like a court case and I´d like to hear the opposing side. There are no arguments that oppose what I´ve proven so far.
Lecture 3
E=mc
2
E=mc
2
as an equation is only used in relativistic scenarios such as very high speed or very high energy, but since speed is a continuum the equation is true at slower speeds. There is a difference between the equation being applicable (being needed while solving equations) and it being true; it is always true everywhere but it is not needed for equations except in special scenarios.
An example of the equation being true everywhere and always is this: nuclear power-plants turn mass (kilograms) into energy (joule), so that if you input 1 kg of uranium-mass you get out 99.9999 kg of waste products – some of the mass turned into energy which lights our light-bulbs. The atoms that lost some weight (that weight was converted into energy) are atoms just like other kinds of atoms, for example in autumn leaves. If you´d drop leaves into the core of the sun, the sun´s nuclear furnace
would turn mass in the leaves into energy (light). Hence all objects are subject to the E=mc
2
-rule, which states that energy (E) equals mass (m). This warrants the word energymass because they are no longer two distinct things – they are but different manifestations of the same thing. In the brain energymass should be a single idea whilst the concepts “energy and mass” refers to two different forms of a single idea.
Verbs and adjectives tend to refer to energy (shining, running, etc.) while nouns refer to mass (body, tree, etc.) E=mc
2
states that the two (verbs/adjectives and nouns) are together in a single equation. Although only applicable in relativistic scenarios (the role of relativism becomes close to zero in everyday human events, except that our light-bulbs shine because mass turns into energy and the sun can makes leaves into light), E=mc
2
is in a “philosophical” sense true everywhere and always just like Pythagoras’s theorem about triangles remains “philosophically true” even where there are no physical triangles. You wouldn´t say 1=1 is not true in empty space just because there are no objects there to count as “1”.
In addition to energymass being a single concept (and not two distinct ones), spacetime gets added into the mix by the c
2
-part of the equation. c is the speed of light (km/h) and thus a distance (space) over time – spacetime! Energymass (E=m) and spacetime (c
2
) should in the brain be represented by a single idea which we can call energymasspacetime. This harkens back to the previous lectures about Reality, which is a synonym for energymasspacetime. Einstein invented the equation E=mc
2
and thus unified in it energymass with spacetime – and synonyms for energymass are “existence” or “1” while synonyms for spacetime are “non-existence”, “emptiness”, “nothing” and “zero”. There is no more to be considered regarding Reality than energymasspacetime; energymasspacetime involves everything (energymass) and nothing (spacetime) so there is nothing more to be considered/added to Reality – Reality is energymasspacetime; everything is included into Reality once we have defined Reality as energymasspacetime.
The Existential Theory
Each culture seems to have a creation myth (such as genesis) – the creation of the cosmos/world/Reality is something humans have invented hypotheses for during millennia. The stories answer the question “why are we here?”
The true answer is unintuitive. First of all: why is there any particular size? What justifies, say, the size of a molecule? The answer is: the smaller and the larger (the rest of the size-range). Atoms justify a molecule and a molecule exhibits a place for atoms to live in: justifies atoms. Humans need an earth to dwell on (the earth is larger) and humans are made of cells (cells are smaller). Each size bears a relationship upon each other size – the smaller justify the larger and the larger justify the smaller. Since the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all four corners of the square (because of the proof where we had two sides of a paper), the size-range is infinite i.e. the pattern of justification between/amongst sizes continues into the infinitely large and infinitely small. What the ancients called “the first cause” keeps retreating into infinity size-wise the more we contemplate it. The size-range is like a fractal: you can keep zooming in or out infinitely much, and the question “why is there this particular object that I see” has its answer in the relationship between all the sizes: justification. Infinite justification is the reason why there is a size-range at all. But there is more that is needed for a full-fledged existential theory: two more factors play their roles.
Spacetime is emptier than we can imagine/represent it. We (and all representeurs) are energymass and thus are the opposite of spacetime. We could let a piece of empty space represent spacetime, but as soon as we use energymass (such as our brains) to do so, we´ve lost the truly empty nature of spacetime: it is unimaginably empty. Any bundle of neurons, no matter how we wire it, is still the opposite of what they want to represent when they want to present us with spacetime. It is therefore useful to have two concepts for spacetime: (1) our simplest intuition of spacetime and (2) additional defining language explaining that spacetime is emptier than (1). This is how exoplanet civilizations would wire their brains regarding the concept “spacetime” too, just because it’s the most accurate science they can manage.
Just like energy and mass are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon, energymass and spacetime are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon. What does it mean for spacetime to be bundled together with (intertwined with) energymass? Everything exists as/in/because of nothing; 1 exists in 0; energymass and spacetime are together in the E=mc
2
-equation. Where could energymass/existence exist? In nothingness. Just like sizes justify one another, spacetime justifies energymass.
The last question that remains, after we have justification between sizes in an infinite size-range, and that all points in the size-time-diagram are made of energymasspacetime (and energymass is justified by it being in spacetime), is the objective fact that there both is a single Reality (the right side of the paper) and there´s its opposite: distinction (between, say, thinker and thought).
The existential theory builds on three “pillars”/fundamental ideas:
An infinite sizescale,
Energymasspacetime as in the equation E=mc
2
Distinction between distinction itself and distinction´s opposite (see fig. 1, 2, 3):
Between distinction (the left side of the paper, our 2 certain truths: I exist and there is thought) and Reality (the opposite of distinction; one Reality (not plural)) there is a line that demarcates distinction/opposition.
Putting it all into one phrase we might say: “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime with opposition between distinction and Oneness”. At its core it´s three ideas (infinite size-time-diagram, energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
), separation and intertwinedness (the two sides of the paper)). On exoplanets they would state their reason for their own existence using these three ideas too, because taken together they explain all that needs to be explained: first thing that comes to mind is that in the stated existential theory there must be a reproducing shape (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape; a DNA-strand) somewhere. If the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all three corners, then evolution ought to occur somewhere (and be made of energymass in spacetime, while being separate/distinct in a single intertwined Reality).
Most creation-myths have a quite simple (one-pillared) and mundane story: for example genesis just states that God created Reality (that of which all is part) in 6 days and rested on the 7
th
. The scientific rival to all such creation stories is a three-pillared theory – we can´t make it any simpler (we can´t make it one-pillared) and the same would be the case on exoplanets: they too can only break it down to three interconnected ideas/pillars/fundaments, so in thinking this way we share a common intellectual history with exoplanet civilizations advanced enough to figure out this existential theory.
On a test on this subject a question might be: “what are the three pillars of the existential theory?” – the question can´t be “what is the most important pillar in the existential theory?” All pillars are
equally important but constitute as distinct ideas as E=mc
2
is from infinite size, or the separation-intertwinedness-opposition (fig. 3).
This three-pillared creation story – the sum of these three chapters – is built upon logic: it includes certain truths like “I think and I exist” (distinction/separation), its opposite (Reality for which we have three proofs for that it can´t be observed/seen/contemplated i.e. the size-time-diagram is infinite), E=mc
2
which unifies nothing/spacetime with existence/energymass, and the relationship between any two sizes (justification along the infinite size-range). Every one of these ideas relates very closely to Descartes´ certain truth, meaning we can be sure of the ideas themselves – and they together build up a minimalist existential theory which needs no further logic to explain everything there is.
Having an infinite size-range has a predictive quality to it too – it makes a prediction: there ought to be evolution (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar mass) somewhere in the diversity we see throughout even the known size-range.
Though as non-intuitive as the 3-pillar existential theory may be to our evolved brains who want a single conclusion, exoplanet civilizations have the same limits and biases as us: they too are stuck with three pillars in a single theory to make the theory explainable. Science is creating universal (exoplanet) neural pathways in our brains. We should embrace the fact that by being non-intuitive but true, this science wires our brain based on science and thus universally. It is the way (the wiring) that all planets are headed to if they´re into science. It´s a universal world-view. We´re thinking like aliens.
In current scientific debates the religious will argue that faith (in a dogma) is needed to (what they call) “understand” the existence of the universe. If confronted with my theory (these lectures) they´d have to agree that logic makes their God unnecessary as a pillar of creation. In the best case scenario God is simply a synonym for Reality (because Reality is “that of which all is part” and thus God ought to be part of it too, and all we know about Reality is that it is energymass in spacetime and separation in intertwinedness).
Having an explanation – the negative side of it is it being three-pillared and unintuitive, the positive side of it being that it accounts for all of Reality and predicts evolution – further justifies the saying “a God of the gaps” (meaning the more we understand the less we need God). Now all that remains to be understood – again in an unintuitive but identical to exoplanets -way – is how, on an infinite time-line, the Big Bang (denseness) recreates and fades away into sparseness (black holes removing energymass and dark energy creating more space until no galaxies are anymore visible).
Lecture 4
The beginning of the Big Bang
I have a hard time imagining how the universe can reach complete emptiness, but it wouldn´t be the first time the universe´s nature surpasses human intuition. In the history of science stars were observed to not move relative to one another on the night sky, and this was argued to prove that the
size of the universe was much smaller than the now known size – it was argued that the universe would be “unreasonably big” if the stars didn´t seem to move relative to one another as the earth moved because they were so far away.
If only enough time is needed for the universe to become empty, then we get the starting scenario which is most reasonable: we start with emptiness (spacetime). Again, spacetime is emptier than our concept for it because we (and our concepts) are made of energymass.
If you move your hand one meter (from position 1 to position 2), the laws of nature that make your hand make sense were already in place in the space of position 2 before you moved your hand there. It´s not like the universe/spacetime was absurd in location 2 and only started to make sense regarding hands when you moved your hand there. We do not impact the laws of nature in such ways; instead the laws of nature are simultaneously and equally true at all locations and all times. In other words: Pythagoras’s theorem is true even in locations where there are no objects whatsoever, but the theorem is only applicable (to be applied) to triangles. In empty space there are no objects and thus no triangles, but Pythagoras´s theorem is true there anyhow – it does not suddenly become true (switch from being untrue to true) when a triangle is imagined or physically moved there. This applies to E=mc
2
too, which is just as much of a law of nature as Pythagoras´s theorem. E=mc
2
is true everywhere and always, though humans only apply (use) the equation in certain scenarios. Where triangles can be (in spacetime) there is also E=mc
2
. Laws of nature are fundamental and inherent in spacetime and do not come about depending on events (though our application/use of any particular equation is dependent on which event we´re analyzing).
There is distinction between the practical use of equations (to solve problems or understand a phenomenon) and the core nature of spacetime having laws of nature in it. Spacetime is a no-nonsense spacetime – we live in a rational (laws of nature-abiding) universe.
One law being E=mc
2
and another one being “if it is said it must exist” (meaning energymass can´t be mentioned in the laws of nature of spacetime without energymass existing), we get spacetime to summon energymass if the starting-point was complete emptiness. “If energymass is mentioned it must be summoned” (it is mentioned in E=mc
2
) is true because it would be a nonsense universe if it “talks” about energymass without there being any – just infinite space for eternity with laws of nature regarding energymass, but never any energymass appearing/being present. It would be a nonsense universe if energymass it mentioned but never exists. It would be akin to the universe telling lies (having all these rules like E=mc
2
but never applying them to anything), or the universe babbling gibberish (having inapplicable laws of nature).
Thus, E=mc
2
being a core property of spacetime itself and the “no gibberish”-rule applying, energymass must logically be summoned – but how and where? Extremely dense i.e. everywhere, in the smallest spaces, simultaneously. Why? Our starting-point is spacetime, which needs no prior justification because it is the opposite of existence: it doesn´t exist – it is emptier than our neurons make it out to be. In it Einstein´s theory of relativity is true, meaning that there is no center point (or in other words: all points are the center) so there is no center to the Big Bang. Another way of seeing it is that as soon as there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification), E=mc
2
became true in all locations (in the smallest spaces) simultaneously – no point in space was before another in having E=mc
2
be true in it. Spacetime having E=mc
2
as a core property has E=mc
2
be true everywhere
simultaneously; once we have the launching-condition of empty spacetime, through E=mc
2
, energymass is summoned everywhere simultaneously.
This “everywhere” is all things within an event horizon, meaning that things moving away faster than the speed of light (due to dark energy/accelerating cosmic expansion) are not within our event horizon: they are not part of what can be reasonably called “our 3-dimensional space” (from our location). Things are not part of our universe once their speed hits faster than the speed of light – and many locations, within the boundaries of their respective event horizons, will one day have all energymass moving away from them at speeds faster than the speed of light (this is just the observed fact of accelerating cosmic expansion). Such a finite space with no energymass within its event horizon (all energymass moving away faster than the speed of light) would constitute “completely empty space” i.e. our starting-point for the Big Bang (energymass being summoned due to E=mc
2
).
Consider an infinite size-range - it is made of energymasspacetime: if we draw it as the Y-axis on a diagram, there can´t be a region/length in it (such as the knowable size-range) which is completely empty forever. See fig. 6.
Because of the rules E=mc
2
and “if it is mentioned it must be summoned”/”no-nonsense universe” are true throughout the infinite size-range, there can´t be a region with just spacetime (with its laws of nature) because the laws of spacetime mention energymass; spacetime is inherently tied to and intertwined with energymass – existence and non-existence go together (at all sizes). There would be no logical breaking-point (a particular size) where energymasspacetime transitions into being just spacetime for a range of sizes and then transitions back into energymasspacetime; there is no logical breaking-point where the implications of E=mc
2
(the implication being: energymass and spacetime are in the same equation) stop to be true. The transition seen in fig. 6 is impossible (there is no “empty region”). Having an empty region would be akin to zooming into the decimals of pi and seeing no numbers for a specific array of decimals: 3.14159ÄÄÄÄ265359... The Ä´s can´t be there: it´s a continuous sequence of decimal numbers. There is no break/”empty region” in the continuous decimals of pi just as there is no region of the size-range that can be empty of energymass.
In this chapter I´ve written something akin to “
first
there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification unless you consider that the size-axis of the size-time-diagram is infinite),
then
there was E=mc
2
,
then
there was energymass summoned into the smallest spaces available (available = considered to be within an event horizon and empty)”. This harkens back to previous lectures´ talk about “alien logic” (how exoplanets think). To have it make sense to our brains we use the time-distinctions “first, then and then” but the real distinction is not in time but in steps in a sequence of logic. In other words all the mentioned steps happened simultaneously to start the Big Bang: E=mc
2
was true as soon as there was spacetime, and as soon as there was that, energymass appeared as not to make the universe absurd (by it talking gibberish or it having an empty region like in fig. 6).
The end of the Big Bang
Telescopes observe that “space is being born” i.e. that the distances between clumps of energymass (galaxies) are getting larger, and at an accelerating pace too. Not only does the Hubble law state that an object a
million light
-
years
away would be receding from us at 21 km/sec and at double the distance twice the speed, but the law states that that speed (for example 21 km/sec a million light years away) is increasing. This is called accelerating cosmic expansion. It means that from our galaxy, when/if we look into the sky trillions of years in the future, we´d see no trace of any other galaxy let alone the cosmic microwave background (because their speeds have passed the speed of light and thus went beyond the event horizon). Once that object a million light years away from us which today is racing away at 21 km/sec reaches 299792 km/sec (the speed of light), it will pass from being within our event horizon to being outside our sphere of events.
This empties our universe or as Hitchens put it: “nothingness is coming”. Once that nothingness comes we have our starting point where we run through the logic of E=mc
2
–> “if it is mentioned it must exist/be summoned” (in order for the universe not to talk gibberish or the infinite size-range not to have a break in it) –> energymass begins as dense (because of relativity and because E=mc
2
is true everywhere simultaneously/equally).
We observe that nothingness (within event horizons) is coming, and beginning from nothingness there is unintuitive logic that has a predictive quality to it: the Big Bang should start dense. This theory works well with lecture 2´s proofs for that “there is more to Reality than can be represented” (the size-time-diagram is infinite) because size is essentially space, and space and time are intertwined into a single spacetime – hence: if size/space is infinite then time must be infinite too. In other words we have reoccurring Big Bangs interspersed along the time-axis of our size-time-diagram. As soon as a region bound by an event horizon becomes empty we have the universe´s no-nonsense-laws kicking in and E=mc
2
summons energymass (in the smallest sizes that are empty equally/simultaneously).
The sequence of consecutive Big Bangs´ beginnings (emptiness leading to energymass being summoned) and ends (accelerating cosmic expansion speeding things past a point´s event horizon and emptiness being summoned) are as infinite as the time-axis proved to be based on lecture 2´s proofs. Proving (in lecture 2) that spacetime is infinite fits perfectly with the reoccurring Big Bangs (when somethingness becomes emptiness and then emptiness summons somethingness).
There will in other words, between the beginning of a Big Bang and the end of that same Big Bang, be life within the conscious/human size-range (the different locations of that size already being infinitely many, see fig. 4).
Each size along the size-axis is defined as “3-dimensional infinite space” meaning there is infinitely much life with access to universal science (i.e. some version of this lecture-series), and within our region (bound by an event horizon) there is life between the beginning and end of Big Bangs. In addition I have hard to believe that a reproducing shape (and thus evolution) only occurs in only
one
size-range (the, for humans, knowable size-range) in an infinite size-range: there ought to be many sub-size-ranges as part of the infinite size-range where evolution occurs and can reach scientific knowledge. All life mentioned above, if they reach scientific understanding, would concur on the existential theory presented in these lectures (especially lecture 3 – the three pillars/foundations/ideas which together become a minimalist theory for why there is the infinite size-range of energymasspacetime in the first place).
This is not only exoplanet science – it is science between Big Bangs and it is science in regions of the size-axis far away (in size) from our knowable size-range. See fig. 7.
Summary
First we looked at Descartes’ ”thought exists” and ”the self exists”, claimed that it was two valid statements and pointed out the distinction between them. On the other side of the paper we wanted to represent anti-distinction (the opposite of distinction) defined as “that of which all is part” (Reality), and realized that since thinker/thought is stuck on the left side of the paper we can’t represent Reality. This is not only Kant’s “the thing is not the thing itself (the mental map is not the real territory)” but more importantly whatever cannot be taken to represent “that of which all is part” i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality.
All we know about Reality (atoms, humans, galaxies) fit into a size-time-diagram (every object has a size and a time), so the minimalist approach combining the above paragraph with this one is to use the first paragraph to prove that the size-time diagram has infinite
axes. This in turn leads to an existential theory which can be summed up as “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime” – and it has a predictive quality to it: somewhere in such an existence there would be a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape and thus we get reproduction/evolution.
So far we’ve looked at the theory of why size itself exists, why there is something rather than nothing – an existential theory beginning from certain truth and logically building its way up all the way to predicting evolution.
Part 2: Evolution
My explanation of evolution focuses on how important disease and bullying (power) was for evolution.
Power
means that
fish
were
fighting fish breeding more agressive fish = dinosaurs, then
wolfpacks with an alpha male.
But even before and after those eras in evolution the rule of power was in play.
In part one we had an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime (including the intertwinedness-separation-opposition and the time-axis with repeating Big Bangs perpendicular to the size-axis) that predicts a reproducing shape i.e. a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape: reproduction in an infinite size-range.
This infinite size-range predicts reproduction.
Part one was about why there is a sizescale of energymasspacetime: the answers are that the sizescale is infinite and that energymass is in spacetime. It predicts that there should be a reproducing shape: say that it is a triangle which gathers surrounding lines into a similar triangle – then it has reproduced itself. The products of this reproduction obey three rules: directly when there was reproduction three rules came into play, I´ve listed them below as 1, 2, 3 but they are not in order (they came simultaneously):
1:
There is life and death: those who survive survive and those who die are not in the game anymore. “The surviving survive”. It´s so simple – we see it in everyday life today. But everything in evolution will come back to these three rules so we might as well do the banal and bring them up.
So directly when there was a reproducing shape - so in our part of the size-range a DNA-strand which split in the middle and became two DNA-strands – the copy either survived or died.
2: The second rule is that the number of offspring has significance. That is to say: if you get one child or five children or ten children, there is a difference between those numbers – and in evolution it´s a benefit to have more children. One can also have zero children, and that is approximately like being dead.
Some would say that evolution´s meaning (the main task of life) is to make more offspring – that it´s the scientific meaning of life – Nature´s meaning: to reproduce. But I would answer that evolution makes more offspring (that´s reproduction) and making more offspring gives evolutionary benefits, but Nature itself does not care – it does not care about whether we nuke ourselves or not. There is no God that looks upon us and cares. Even reproduction becomes meaningless in the larger perspective. But in evolution it has significance whether one has zero offspring or ten offspring.
Rule number two (number of offspring matters) just as simple as rule number 1 (that there is life and death; that some live and some die).
The third rule that appered... – well all three rules appeared simultaneously directly when there was reproduction in this sizerange. The third rule is that:
3: There is mutation in every generation-shift. Things change. It doesn’t make perfect copies. Your child (if you have one) is not an exact copy of yourself or your wife – it’s a mutation; a change.
These three rules – 1: that there is life and death, the surviving survive. 2: That there are different nuances in the number of offspring. 3: That there is mutation in every generation-shift – these three rules came into play directly when the first reproduction occurred. We will return to these three rules over and over again; they are like laws of nature that like God says shall work on life directly when the first life reproduces itself. These laws of nature didn’t exist before the first life reproduced itself – they were not active then. They became active directly when there was reproduction.
These are abstract laws that we will manufacture, then we have the physical reality of that in a puddle of water a strand of DNA – a cell – made copies/offspring. Then viruses came into the game and injected its own DNA into the ordinary cells, that is to say: hijacked their reproductive system to create virus-offspring. If this would´ve continued the ocean would´ve been filled with only viruses, so there has to be some next step which made it so that our type of life survived. But the viruses added a 4
th
law (one of these abstract laws)
and that is: if you can hijack someone else’s reproductive system to create your own offspring; if you can inject your DNA into somebody else´s cell so that it creates viruses – I call this “power”. We will return to this word when we for example look at dinosaurs (they became bigger because the men killed each other to get the women whom make offspring). This power-principle was one that came after the three first ones.
The first cells reproduced and we had these three rules, then viruses came and injected their DNA and used “power” to produce more viruses. Then we get an immune-system which kills viruses i.e. protects the original organism´s reproductive system from being hijacked by viruses. So the immune-system evolved to take back the reproductive principle (2: the number of offspring matters); for the fact that one should retain the reproductive capability for oneself – so that no virus can take it over. So power has a lot to do with the number of offspring – principle 4 has a lot to do with principle 2.
We have multicellular organisms with immune-systems, we have viruses around them – and it´s an arms-race between that the viruses mutate to overcome the immune-system and the immune-system mutates to overcome the virus. Thus we have an evolutionary pressure on mutating the immune-system as much as possible as fast as possible (because the viruses mutate very quickly), and the best way to do that is to combine genes from two different organisms: a man and a woman. So sex has its beginning in viruses.
If this doesn´t make you feel comfortable contemplate this: the truth outweighs positive-thinking. But does one want to remove whatever spreads joy among people? Those who want to defeat the religious violence in the world (I think religion is the biggest unnecessary cause of hatred in the world) – one cannot defeat that without defeating all religiousness simultaneously. To want to defeat one part of religion but not the rest of it is like voting for the Republicans and Democrats simultaneously – it´s just unreal. Sadly one must remove the good to remove the evil. Meditation still remains and one can get a kind of anxietylessness from some thoughts still but in the big picture there are no reasons that support them anymore – it´s just a brain-trick that one does.
In our evolutionary story we had an immune-system which mutates, wants more mutations – we get two genders. Then men begin to war with each other (because, metaphorically speaking, women can produce offspring once a year while men can produce it every day – we have an imbalance; asymmetry). Why is it always men that start wars? It began with the first fish – we had multicellular life in our story so far, so they became a bit bigger, could swim around – we get fish: it´s easier to find food then and easier to move around. Directly when there were two genders there was one fish which evolved to use its teeth for killing other male fish. The first aggressor of course got the most offspring because there were no other men around. That´s why men go to war: they can produce offspring with so many women while a woman has no benefit from having 1000 men.
There´s a caveat to
this once we get to caveman tribes/wolf-packs where a woman secretly wants many men to provide resources to her child, but at least in the era between fish and dinosaurs the picture was simply based on asymmetric reproductive rates.
So then the male fish grow more aggressive, the child who is the biggest and has the sharpest teeth kills the other male fish, has the most offspring; and in the next generation, again: the child with the most aggression and biggest muscles gets the most offspring – that´s how we get to dinosaurs and T-rex. We had males competing/fighting with each other and that´s why T-rex is so large. That is, again, the power-principle: just like viruses took over the reproductive system from the first cells, T-rex takes away the reproductive system from his rivals by killing them. So this principle number 4 (power) lives on – it has caused/causes so much: it causes the first viruses, it causes T-rex, that fish become aggressive, that we get two genders (by viruses getting power – so we wanted to counter that power by immune-systems i.e. two genders).
These dinosaurs then, just like humans don´t seem to have (sarcasm), any concept of preserving natural resources – so they would´ve eaten up all their trees and not had any food left. But on our planet it seems to have been a meteor-strike which wiped them out, but on exoplanets i.e. overall in this evolutionary series of evolutionary pressures causing various principles (first the three first principles, then the 4
th
principle, immune-systems, two-genderedness, bigger
fish, fights between the fish, dinosaurs). The dinosaurs ate their natural resources and all large life dies - so only small rat-like/squirrel-like life-forms live on.
The trees grow back up – we get monkeys.
Groups tend to, in a fight – if it´s a group against an individual (one against many) – the group tends to win. So we monkeys form groups, fighting together for food against individualists. The individualists lost.
So we got this - or had it from the get-go (just like with the first aggressors) – instinct that makes us want to be highest in the hierarchy and thereby get all the women. Power again. But this time it´s a kind of human power – we saw power when viruses took over the reproductive systems, we saw power when dinosaurs outcompeted their rivals (the men), we see power when a bully goes to the top of the hierarchy, pushes down the other men – and the women want the bully´s resources (he has the most stuff) so they´re attracted to him, so he gets the most offspring – out of his offspring the one that is best at getting power the one that gets most offspring.
The reason for why the brain grew so fast during the past 100 000 years was because we used the brain to plan for how to climb upward in the hierarchy. The reproductive benefits coming from being
cchigh-status in the hierarchy were so great comparing to being low-status that this put great selection-pressure on bigger brains.
Now we basically have caveman living in hierarchical societies, we have kings, aristocrats and slaves – and that is how the world was 5000 years ago. The kings build monumental architecture (pyramids and such). Then someone focused on a random word – so someone focused on what we talked about in part 1: Reality (that of which all is part) and realized one cannot see it (because we should be part of it, or the other two proofs for not being able to see all there is to Reality) and thus they invented the word God: it is one, one cannot see it – we have the dawn of monotheism.
Someone random-focused on the word “soul/self” too and realized one gets less anxiety by making a distinction between the body
one sees in ones imaginations
(the body in one´s plans which tries to get reproduction, survival, resources, power, etc. – the three evolutionary principles that we listed in the beginning of this chapter). One sees a body in front of oneself which tries to make plans to get these things. But it is not that body which is “true” – instead it´s the observer which sees this body
which is “True” – and one cannot see that observer because one is it all the time. This was when they invented the Soul.
So the words God and Soul are legitimate concepts – then the church added a bunch of things like “the soul is immortal” and that “God said this and that to one or another person” (prophets and so on whom lied about a bunch of things). We also have the Golden Rule “do onto others like you would like to have them do onto you” which is a universal thing that they surely have on other planets: we are all humans, we want to be treated as of equal value. So from evolution we went from having cavemen to that someone came up with these
simple
thoughts, and then the church added a bunch of clutter to them. We thus have religions´ beginnings. The ideas of soul (the True self/observer which can´t be seen) and God (that of which all is part is One) are scientific ideas – so to some extent we have the beginnings of science.
Then people invented the telescope and microscope (to discover the sizes in the size-range), and we have a lot of knowledge and upbringing – but this is more intellectual history instead of biological history/evolution – but the intellectual has its foundation in the biological. So now we have gone through the whole story from the first cells to the birth of science.
I try to make this into a theory that is agreed upon by everyone; nowadays there are people who say that God (defined as a metaphysical mind) is needed to understand the theory of evolution – that there are mysteries within evolution. But I see no mysteries in this.
In a future book we will look at consciousness: which kind of emotional repertoire we have. We already said that we want power, we want reproduction, we want resources… But we will look closer at exactly which emotions exist and into which categories one can categorize them – and why they came about (what their evolutionary histories/pressures are). Which exact emotions? The feeling that one wants power, the feeling that one wants to help the flock, the feeling that one wants to plan how to get reproduction… - everything we do / the things that we do. For example I wrote this book because I´m at “war” with the enemies of civilization (“the enemy tribe”), because I want power out of selling this, reproduction out of getting status from having found a new way of describing some things, helping
countries ravaged by religion to become civilized (“helping flock-members”)…
These things drive me to do something intellectual. The emotional repertoire – that is to say: the diagrams about the brain – we can look at in the next book, because now we´ve looked at evolution and evolution created the brain so there is a lot of overlap.
Part 3:
The dawn of religion
No-one knows which kind of God emerged first (in protohuman minds). Was it the contemplation on Part 1 of this book (the oneness of Reality and it’s unrepresentability – focusing on the most all-encompassing concept)? Was there a war between two tribes/groups and to avoid soldiers from deserting one’s own group, the priest/king claimed to get his orders from a super-human invisible entity (which “looks better” than a mere human giving orders). Thinking
“they have a superhuman invisible commander while our group is just mere humans” is demoralizing for the group believing that the enemy has something mystical super-human communicating with their leadership. This kind of god is a tool of war. Or was the first God invented in dog-brain sized brains where a simple cortical circuit (the assotiations: the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) lessened anxiety.
We are after-all craving for the approval of “the hierarchical top”, we fear it... we have all kinds of emotions toward it and it can be imagined to love me, to dictate procedures like prayers to me, etc. It’s such a simple cortical circuit to define the hierarchy’s top as “that of which all is part (Reality)” and say that it loves me. That’s basically three concepts (hierarhical top (Reality) protecting me) – and it alliviates anxiety and gets us through dark nights of the soul. For the simple reason that it feels good to activate that circuit we try to “drug ourselves” by activating it over and over, emphasizing our belief in it, teaching it to everybody. The “hierarchical top (defined as Reality) protects me”-emotion
is one of those good feelings that we can activate at will. When we genetically engineer super-positive feelings to be activated by words, those new animals will propably activate their best emotions like a drug-addict seeks drugs – but they can activate it with words.
The circuitry is simple enough and panic attacks are common enough that I think everyone activates that “...protects/loves me”-circuitry during their life-time. Some choose to call it “belief in God”, others “the hierarchical top (defined as that of which all is part) protects me” and others don’t use any words for it because it is as unnoticable as digestion – something that naturally occurs in certain circumstances and one doesn’t need to be arrogant or proud of having that circuitry because it’s like 3-4 concepts (memorizing 4 concepts whom’s associations make us feel better is not a big feat).
Whichever type of God came first is lesser of a question, though, than: is heaven the same thing? Can “heaven” (and “hell”) be interpreted in a way that it makes sense? Heaven is obviously not a location in the sizerange (we don’t move in the sizerange when we die), so is heaven outside the entire theory (and thus “outside” (though this thing has no outside) that of which all is part)? No. Heaven may be synonomous to being good, and not some location in the diagram.
Maybe heaven is what the future genetically engineered super-happy animal will be in all the time.
Summary
Now that we know the three-pillar existential theory (like infinitely many extraterrestrials in infinite space thinks about it), we’ve got the beginning of evolution with a tiny DNA-strand (first reproduction sparking the three first evolutionary rules (1,2,3) and then the 4
th
(power). At the same time we see a continuum all the way to understand religions.
Since the infinitely many extraterrestrials are like us – they share the same logical evolutionary principles in sets following one another along time in a triangle-shape because increasing complexity is shown along the triangle.
It’s not like I don’t sometimes focus on the sentence “top of the hierarchy (defined as that of which all is part) loves and protects me” (“belief in God” in religious language).
Aliens can also prioritize what to focus on; what to take more off and what one wants to take less of. Aliens “judge” us based on principles like maximum happiness for all (animals, all humans), “do onto others like you’d want them do to yourself”. These are simple universal rules that aliens follow to maximize happiness in an otherwise brutal dog-eat-dog world.
What’s worth noticing
in this whole book
is the existential theory which predicts a tiny DNA-strand is more interesting because it is HOW God created the universe, or if you prefer: you remove God and the existential theory rests firmly on its three pillars.
To me, the core of religion seems to be different emotions to and from the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”). The context of course is hierarchical animals which were preceded by group-dwelling animals (we talked about this in part 2 of this book: evolution).
Having a simplistic association of concepts (merely the 3-4
concepts: hierarchical top – defined as that of which all is part – protects/loves/etc me) gives a relief of anxiety, fear, loneliness etc. Having the more complex picture of the same thing – the context surrounding it – makes the whole thing mundane because we realize that “hierarchical top” refers to our wolf-like nature and “that of which all is part” comes as an infinite sizerange.
As I’ve said I agree with the words Soul (true self vs false self; observer of the body in one’s plans vs. the body in one’s plans) and God (defined as “that of which all is part” and synonymous with Reality). But Heaven is a tricker question – what does “heaven” mean? It is obviously no unknown size-range in the infinite sizerange nor a location in space, nor can it be “outside” [that of which all is part]. I acknowledge that believing in heaven gives the same kind of fear-relief as “the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) protects me”, but like I said: I have trouble not being complex and analyzing “the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) protects me” (putting it in it’s sizescalian and evolutionary context), and with “Heaven” I have even more trouble because the single simplest thought ruins that idea. If I were to try to “believe in Heaven” I’d have to focus so hard that my mind doesn’t wander to even the most closely associated or easily retrieved scientific concept (because that destroys heaven). I do believe in doing good out of solidarity, and that doing good will reak its rewards for the millions of coming generations.
So to me Holy Books tend to contain only the following: different emotions to and from the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) , scientific truths like that Reality cannot be seen, heaven & hell and rituals.
Other than material pleasures like humor, I think we can find
condolence
in that being something in nothing with a bleak evolutionary story is more grim than we feel it to be; the truth hurts but not as much as we can feel. We are worse off than we realize and we should be happy we don’t fully feel our meaningless depressing situation which is made sense of in an unintuitive (and thus gives the feeling of confusion) way
(I’m thinking mainly of the three-PILLAR existential theory).
In Holy Books I also tend to find what I’ll relate to you in an anecdote: I was sitting in the back-seat of a car on vacation in a country which I had fallen in love with, whilst winter was raging in my home country. The driver of the car asked if I wanted a hazelnut croissant. I thought what was more important of a topic was for me to whine about that I don’t ever want to leave this country, I want my vacation to last longer, I don’t want to go back to the darkness and snow. So I said “I don’t want to go back to Sweden 🙁 !!” and the driver asked “what does this have to do with the hazelnut croissant?”. I put my answer in a joke: “the connection between the two topics is very deep and significant, but it’s hard to explain: it’s mysterious – and that’s religion.” I tend to find, to say the least, unintuitive associations between concepts in holy books (not meant as jokes).
Meta-commentary on this book
If the purpose of this book is to unify across religious-differences and build more agreement and thus friendship/trust in the world, then the overall structure of having three parts should remain the same no matter how the course/book is presented:
first
the existential theory because it predicts that there ought to be a tiny DNA-strand somewhere,
then
evolution (because it’s a continuation off of the existential theory/part 1),
then
other thoughts like the circuitry related to religion.
If we focus on ways to teach part 1 of this book (the existential theory), one has three options:
begin from Descartes’ certain truth (I think and I am) and make small logical steps all the way up to anti-distinction (that of which all is part) and how distinction vs. anti-distinction –opposition proves that the sizerange is infinite.
begin from Nothingness (spacetime) which is there “a priori” (needs no prior justification) and is emptier than we can imagine it as. Then state that that spacetime is non-absurd/non-bizarre i.e. that for example the case is not that at one moment 1+1=2, then 1+1=5, then 1+1=241, then 1+1=2 again. 1+1=2 is a law of nature inherent in spacetime, and so is Pythagoras’ theorems about triangles (a triangle is not a sphere because the universe is non-absurd). The laws of nature state
d
so far already hint at Existence (energymass) but E=mc
2
is a law of nature that certainly explicitly requires Energymass. Where is Energymass first summoned? In the smallest spaces, thus we get a dense Big Bang throughout the entire sizerange.
begin with stating the three pillars of the existential theory: (1) an infinite sizerange (2) of energymasspacetime (3) in intertwinedness-separation-opposition.
Including all three ways to begin should convince everyone of that this world-view is valid.
The diagram
This is the logotype infinitely many extraterrestrials, basing it off of science, paint on their T-shirts, caps and other merchendize. We’ve already talked about the infinite sizerange and the evolutionary theory (the square and the triangle), but the additional third part aliens would add to the diagram is their diagrams of the brain: the different categories (large or small, 3 of them) of hard-wired circuits: homeostatic circuits, social/external-circuits and circuitry that gets activated when the two other categories of circuits aren’t active (these are gathering resources, curiosity (expanding one’s world-view), planning how to get power, planning how to get reproduction).
In our planning-system we have serotonine (the red line) and dopamine (the blue line).
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen, Sweden
War and Boredom
– Religious wars continue because this book isn’t known enough, and it is not known because it is “boring” i.e. causes feelings of meaninglessness, depression etc.
Author
yonis
Posted on
31/12/2016
07/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on War and Boredom
2 Nobel Prizes
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/Untitled-Project2.mp4
Author
yonis
Posted on
12/12/2016
14/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on 2 Nobel Prizes
V 2-4
V2-4
Author
yonis
Posted on
08/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on V 2-4
Existential theory (2)
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/We-are-evolution-2.mp4
Author
yonis
Posted on
07/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Existential theory (2)
Summary in video (10 min)
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/Untitled.mp4
Author
yonis
Posted on
05/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Summary in video (10 min)
Latest version of my book
Warrior of Boredom
The title of this book refers to that it is hard to get through this book. The reason why this new science (that I present in this book) hasn’t been discovered until I did is because it’s depressing, anxiety-giving and BORING. But the question is: does everyone agree on it? If they do, that changes the Israel-Palestine-conflict where the parties of God are vetoing “the holy land”. Religion is the biggest cause for hate in the world, as Hitchens said. My book defeats religion – it’s a minimalist theory that works completely – a theory of Everything: existence (why there is size itself), evolution – even thoughts on the methodology for doing politics.
Philosophy = honor,
but anxiety/depression and boredom. Religion = no honor,
but less anxiety/depression and less boredom.
The big picture, accounting of everything, conflicts with certain positive-thinking brain-tricks and with our bias toward ignoring some negative/depressing aspects of nature.
The first part of this book will be a more detailed discourse about the following paragraph:
Descartes proved that there is distinction (between thinker and thought) - what's the opposite of distinction: "that of which all is part" (Reality). Since we are stuck in Descarte's thinker and thought-realm we can't see Reality, nor can "whatever" not represent it, meaning that there's more to it than can be contemplated/represented. Since all objects we know of fit in a size-time-diagram, this argument must mean that there is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram - and this in turn leads us to an existential theory (a theory about why there is size in the first place).
I realize that’s too fast of a paragraph to convince everyone and thus I want to convince the readers of this book to be warrios or boredom and see all my arguments.
Lecture 1
Descartes
One of the aims of this course is to get EVERYONE to agree so that they have the same associations between scientific concepts.
There is no other proper way to accomplish this goal than by starting with certain truth, which was found by Descartes in the 1600s. He lived in a time where they believed in demons, Gods etc. so he postulated a thought experiment where he assumed an almighty demon was fooling him in everything he could be fooled in: what would remain as certain truth – what could he not be fooled in?
If he was being fooled, where would still be a “he” (or self) there to be fooled, meaning that the self certainly exists. A self is necessary for a self to be fooled.
Descartes had thus concluded his own existence.
Being fooled is thinking – thus thought exists. “There is thought” Descartes concluded as certain truth. The word “fooling” represents a thought-process.
Descartes found the starting-position for any inquiry about truth: we can know certainly that thinker and thought exists.
Distinction exists (a logical conclusion from the above)
Looking at what we´ve found as certain truth so far “from above” (meta), we can take the next logical step – adding a third factoid to our 2-statement (A and B above) starting position: that there is distinction (
between
thinker and thought). The fact that thinker and thought are two separate entities concluded to be certain truth
s
through two
different
logical pathway
s
lets us conclude that “distinction exists”
. There are what Chinese philosophy calls “the ten thousand things” (referring to the world) – there are at least two (three if we include “distinction” as th
e third thing) certain entities, and empirically we know there are “ten thousand things” (not taking the number 10 000 literally but just referring to multiplicity).
First universal diagram
We can draw the thinker and thought and distinction between them as two dots with a line between them on a piece of paper (fig. 1).
Now we have something all religions agree on
– we´ve drawn up ideas and associations between them. Everyone ought to have the same associations (explanatory thoughts) between the concepts we´ve looked at so far.
We have, if you will – in figure 1 – a universal diagram.
Reality
We have the capability to conglomerate many separate entities under the rubric of a single category. If we use this capability to collect the “ten thousand things” (distinct entities) we´ve found so far into a single thing, we ought to give that thing a word/name. Its definition can be “that of which all is part” and “the opposite of separation/distinction”. I will use the word Reality to refer to this all-encompassing thing.
In lecture 2 I will present three proofs for that “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, but for now we can draw (adding to figure 1) a dot with a cross over it – the cross to symbolize that the dot itself is a false representation of Reality because we (the observer/self/thinker) should be part of that dot. See fig 2.
Thinking about what we´ve got so far
Thinking about what we´ve got so far (fig. 2) it’s a bundle of associations which make universal inter-religious (all religions agree on it) knowledge with both words and pictures.
In the next lecture I present why the line in fig 2 (see fig 3) represents the opposition/antagonism/disagreement/contraposition/divergence/variance between the two sides of the paper; between “thinker and thought” on one side of the paper and “Reality (that of which all is part; the opposite of separation)” on the other side of the paper.
Worth noting now is that the left side of the paper represents separation/distinction whilst the right side of the paper represents the opposite of separation/distinction – both are legitimate ideas: thinker and thought – and distinction – is certain truth based on Descartes and we all know which idea we refer to when talking about the all-encompassing [that of which all is part] Reality.
In the next lecture we will talk about why the line in fig. 3 makes it so that we can´t see Reality – I will present three proofs like in a crime case, and we will talk about what we can see if we can´t see Reality.
Making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far
1
See fig. 1 again: it´s our starting-point and the thinking that occurs in it happens in Descartes “realm of mind”; it is the mind´s realm (the left side of the paper) in which the thinking happens, and one thing we talk about is Reality on the right side of the paper in fig 3. Since the line in fig. 3 represents both the legitimacy of the ideas on both sides of the paper, and simultaneously the opposition between separation/distinction (on the left side of the paper) and [the opposite of separation/distinction] on the right side of the paper. That opposition is important and I will show its significance in lecture 2.
2
Starting from Descartes realm (of if you will: assuming that all we know is what we know for certain), we have the capability to state that there is a single Reality of which all is part – so even though we see separation we must grant that that separation (all entities) fits into a category we call Reality. There is a unifying whole even though the human mind (Descartes realm) is limited in its ways when it tries to contemplate Reality.
Not only is there the map-territory distinction (which will be presented as one out of three proofs in lecture 2), but there is also a more fundamental opposition between distinction and its opposite (there is a more fundamental opposition between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3). Not only are we stuck in the map-territory-distinction-realm but we also can conclude that no representation (regardless of the mind) is equal to Reality (on a more fundamental level than the map-territory-problem).
Representation is done in the brain using neurons and in a computer using electrons, but there is no reason why the most distant atom or quark couldn´t be proposed to be a symbol for [that of which all is part] – and even in that brainless scenario we will see in lecture 2 that “that of which all is part cannot be represented”. The map-territory-distinction is just proof/evidence number two in lecture 2 (for that we cannot see Reality and thus, since we do see/represent something, there must be more to Reality than can be represented i.e. the size-time-diagram (presented in lecture
2) is infinite along both axes.
Proof 3 in lecture 2 removes the brain from the equation and still proves that there is more to Reality than can be seen/represented/symbolized (using any means/any method – even without a brain), and since some representation is obviously (since we know that there are minds) possible, there must be more than can be represented/contemplated i.e. the size-axis is infinite and the time-axis is infinite in that two-axis diagram.
3
Both sides of the paper in fig. 3 are legitimate ideas. But still they are opposites (separation on one side and the opposite of separation on the other side). How can two derived-from-logic sides of the paper be opposites but still both be legitimate?
Usually opposition – like between Democrats and Republicans – means that one is right and the other is wrong; they can´t both simultaneously be right: you can´t meaningfully vote for both parties at the same time.
The case is different between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3: both sides are right and they are opposites.
There is a single Reality and there is multiplicity in distinction.
What does this mean? That there is more to the size-time-diagram than anything could represent – any representation fails (you can think of some
examples/suggestions for how to represent [that of which all is part]/[the opposite of separation]) – and thus the axes on the size-time-diagram are infinite. This is a hither to unpresented fact in science – it is new science: some of the best scientists ignorantly believe that the size-range is limited/finite.
4
We have quite a few associations and symbols in fig. 3 which must be agreed upon, and here I´m using the word “must” in the sense that “by the rules of logic X must be true”. Other civilizations throughout the infinitely many galaxies there are use the exact same ideas (but in a different language) and have the same associations between them (that there are infinitely many galaxies is derived from that the size-axis in the size-time-diagram is infinite). There is distinction as the third truth to be added to Descartes two fundamental truths (thinker and thought exist), and all that is opposed to (on the other side of the paper in fig. 3) to the all-encompassing Reality which is defined using at least two definitions: that of which all is part and the opposite of separation.
I´m tri-lingual but I write the same ideas and associate them in the same ways no matter which language I write in – its universal science beginning from certain truth. On other planets that have civilizations my writings in this book ought to match up quite near to the writings creating the same lecture series based on universal science that I´m creating
– “alien”/exo-planet
lecture series proceed, beginning from certain fact, through logical steps as I do.
5
[Thinker and thought] (certain truth) and thus distinction/separation are associated through negation/opposition to the right side of the paper in figure 3: Reality. The left side is not the right side just like separation is not its opposites. Both being legitimate ideas, though, connects them in the way that thinker and thought (and all other distinct entities) are in the category Reality.
Even though Reality and distinction are opposites, distinction dwells in (as a sub-entity within the category) Reality.
The associations between the left and right sides of the paper in figure 3 are both united through the notion “opposition” and through the notion that distinction is inherent in Reality (Reality being the opposite of distinction
because we have all-encompassing and its opposite: composite parts).
6
It is certainly true that all is part of a single Reality; but it is equally true that in every observation there is an observer and hence distinction (between thinker and thought). We see separate entities is as true as that the self that we are is not in front of us – but everything we see (thought/object) is in front of us.
That is evidence 1 in lecture 2 (not a proof, but a mere suggestion/evidence that [that of which all is part cannot be observed] and thus there is more to Reality than our concept of [infinitely much].
All we know about Reality has two properties: a size and a time. Size and time are two axes on a diagram, and thus all we know fits into the size-time-diagram (every object or location in space has a size and time).
There is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram because all suggested representors for Reality fail
(for three reasons taken up in lecture 2).
7
All
bundles of associations in this chapter “making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far”
are written in order to create some universal brain structures (universal because
science is the same everywhere (on all exo-planets), and their brains make the same associations too eventually). It´s not some random bundle of associations nor did I randomly present random ideas.
I assume the brain structure created by understanding this book is a replica of something derived from science; a replica of brain structures on the infinitely many other civilization-bearing planets. It´s a universal “ideology”, if you will.
Everyone has a possibility of sharing it in agreement – and future lectures will add a whole lot of complexity to it; agreement tends to build friendship so study is a way of bringing more peace to the world.
Once the full world-view is presented throughout this book, it´s a way of pacifying the world.
8
We have two brain-halves: one linguistic and one visual. So far we´ve both drawn pictorial representations and connected words – both brain-halves have been working. The connections across corpus collosum (which sits between the brain-halves and connects them) that connect a linguistic narrative/explanation to the pictorial representations are one day found in all humans thanks to science. Our brains are becoming more as science has a propensity to make them be.
This course itself, since it begins with certain truths and builds upon it logically, is a universal course (to the best of my ability).
The brain cells that constitute the negation (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 3) or opposition are not the same kind of cells (they are inhibitory neurons) that connect thinker with though as both being certain truths (but the thinker is not the thought and thus has inhibitory cells making that brain-structure work too
(what you are is not in front of you;
what you are is not visible).
Since both Reality and [what you are]/self/observer/thinker are invisible the brain might erroneously and spontaneously try to associate them, so a brain-structure is needed to inhibit that association (and replace it with a more complex explanation). That spontaneous but erroneous association is something all thinking animals throughout the universe evolved to do, and the inhibition of it through culture/civilizing/science is universally available within complex enough civilizations throughout the universe.
As you can see the brain structures responsible for doing this thing are quite complex, but also universal and thus accessible to all humans, and predictably will someday be in all humans (fostering agreement, thus friendship, thus peace).
Lecture 2
Perceive, apprehend, notice are synonyms for our representing ability, but I will use the word “see” or “observe” to refer to all of these. The goal of this lecture is to prove the statement “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, Reality being defined as “that of which all is part”. In other words: we cannot see Reality, and thus there is more to Reality than even can be contemplated (i.e. infinitely much).
I will build this lecture like a criminal court case: I will present three proofs for that we cannot see Reality i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated i.e. (since we can contemplate anything (right or wrong)) Reality is infinite.
Since anything/everything we know about Reality has some size and time, it fits into a size-time-diagram. See fig. 4.
In fig. 4 size is represented along the vertical axis and time along the horizontal axis. The objects humans see in everyday life (from the horizon to a single cell as one “pixel” in our visual field) are marked in “the human range”.
See fig 5.
In fig. 5 I´ve drawn the same diagram as in fig. 4 but this time with infinity-symbols in each corner of the squareical size-time-diagram. Two infinite axes become a square.
Proof number 3 in our “court case” for proving that the size-time-diagram (Reality) is infinite has us imagine the unobservable separatenessless Reality and ask whether there is a maximum or minimum size to/in it (a maximum/minimum being separateness while we are talking about the opposite of separation). This is again to confirm that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes.
The line we drew in fig. 4 was for separating the two sides of the paper; opposing “thinker and thought” (distinction) with its opposite: one all-encompassing non-distinction Reality. That opposition-line is what this lecture is about since it proves that the two sides of the paper are
separate/opposing realms and we are stuck in one realm as long as we are observers (because observation is separation/distinction (thinker and thought)).
Proving that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes is new science because it poses the question: what happened before the Big Bang (14 billion years ago), and it presents one pillar of our existential theory: that each size is the reason for each next and previous size, and the size axis is infinite, meaning the “beginning” of the relationship between sizes keeps retreating into infinity the more we contemplate the range of the size axis.
When I presented fig. 4 for the first time I drew a cross over the dot symbolizing Reality for the plain reason that we (as observers) should be part of that dot, and by the very nature of us being separate (and the dot representing the opposite of separation) we should draw a cross over it symbolizing that we cannot see it.
The main proof though is that even if all observers were dead there´d still be, inherent and fundamental in nature, the opposition between distinction and distinction´s opposite (the two sides of the paper in fig. 4). The line is an opposition-line and it is more fundamental than being dependent on humans/observers – it refers to all representation whether it’s using/including humans or not. I am, in other words, not talking about the map-territory distinction (which symbolizes that humans have mental maps and not the real world per se; like Kant said: we have “the thing” and not “the thing itself”). Proof 2 – the opposition-line between the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 – is not subjective: it is true that we live with the map-territory-distinction but even if I died there´d still be separate things (chairs separate from cups), that kind of separation is not dependent on me/observers. Simultaneously the flipside of the coin (the other side of the paper in fig. 4) is true too: all is one single Reality (the opposite of separation). Proof 2, in other words, should not be interpreted as signifying the map-territory distinction (human subjectivity) but instead a fundamental opposition in the universe.
If we do not see Reality, then what do we see? Everything we see fits into the size-time-diagram, and since the opposition-line in fig. 4 shows that there is a fundamental rule that states, in 3 different proofs, that Reality is infinite / there is more than can even be contemplated / there is more than even non-subjective representation can represent.
Proof number 1 is really weaker than a “proof” – it´s more like evidence. It wouldn´t hold up in a court but it is a way of stating what the other proofs too point towards. Proof 1 is what we saw when presenting figure 4: any dot representing Reality is an incorrect representation because the observer should be part of the object – the thinker should be part of the thought. It denies Cartesian separation and thus is untrue, meaning that anything we draw on the right side of the paper in fig. 4 is incorrect.
We can contemplate anything: we can speculate about what´s smaller than quantum physics, or even what´s smaller than that, etc. into infinity. We are probably wrong, but any contemplation/representation counts as a contemplation – and since we know that, whether right or wrong as our contemplations may be, there is more to Reality than can be contemplated, it follows that there must be infinitely much to Reality. Since all we know about Reality fits into a size-time-diagram, the minimalist approach is to state that it´s the size-time-diagram that is infinite.
This warrants two new words: the knowable/known size-range and the infinite size-range. The knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range. Since Einstein unified space (size) and time, one cannot be infinite without the other one being the same. Science today doesn´t know whether there was a “before” to the Big Bang or not (whether time was created at the Big Bang), but now we know that the Big Bang is just an event on an infinite time axis. In a future lecture we will talk about how/why the Big Bang recreates (happens over and over).
We talked about universal diagrams (and universal brain-structures) in lecture 1. The size-time-diagram is one major universal diagram. A lot of detail can be added to it because all fields of science fit into it. The infinity-symbols on each axis of the squareical diagram are drawn, based on science, on exo-planets with advanced enough civilizations.
This lecture is about proving that [that of which all is part] (the opposite of separation) i.e. Reality cannot be observed/represented, and that this fact is true irrespective of whether we are observers or dead, and applying this to the size-time-diagram (which gets its infinity-symbols into the squareical diagram).
Proof number 2 (the main proof) is the oppositional approach between Reality and distinction, and it is not subjective because Reality and Reality´s opposite exist even if we were dead. Proof number 3 is about imagining (even though no imagination is it) Reality as a big gray (because energymass is white and spacetime is black) solid, in which we know no observer should be (because observation is separation) – does it have separation i.e. a biggest and a smallest size? No, because such distinctions are not in the opposite of distinction (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 4).
I´ve mentioned universal associations in the brain / exo-planet science, so talking about the size-time-diagram we can add more universal notions to it: why did I draw upwards on the size axis as larger and downward as smaller? Why is the time-axis horizontally drawn instead of vertically? The diagram works even if we would define the vertical axis as time and the horizontal axis as size – so why do we draw size vertically and time horizontally? Is it universal i.e. on other planets or just a human convention like writing from left to right in English-speaking countries and right to left in Arabic-speaking countries?
Evolution has it so that during the history of science telescopes look upward and microscopes look downward. This would be the case on other planets too: they turn their heads upward to see the large and downward (onto a table) to see the small; the opposite can´t be true on any planet. Thus we get the size axis´ standard (of upward being larger) from evolution / the history of science. I use the word “standard” because it comes from evolution rather than being more fundamentally hard-wired into the universe such as the fact that the size-time-diagram is a square with infinity symbols. That the size-time-diagram is a square is not a standard – it is something stronger than that. The fact that we represent time on the vertical axis (and upward as larger) comes from a weaker source: tradition (even though that same tradition is true on all planets; evolution, in this regard, happens the same on all planets that end up with civilizations).
We thus have added standards or weak conventions (derived from history) in addition to having strong diagrams like the size-time-diagram being a square. The distinction between the two is made based on science and is thus made on exo-planets.
Scientists are looking for exo-planets that bear civilizations. If the size-range is infinite – as we´ve proven that it is – then each particular size (like the human range in fig. 5) is infinite too; if the largest is infinitely large then there is, considering the size of a human, an infinite distance in any direction that that human could find itself in. This makes civilizations on other planets a must, not an assumption. The known/knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range, and within the known size-range there is a range in which evolution occurs (between the smallest cells and the biggest organisms), and since we´ve proven that there are infinitely many objects within/of that size-range, then there must be infinitely many locations in which evolution occurs.
In the next lecture we will bind together the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 (distinction and distinction´s opposite; “thinker and thought” opposing Reality) with E=mc
2
(energymasspacetime) and with the infinity of the size-time axes, into a single existential theory which is a rival to “God created earth in 6 days…” The existential theory is a minimalist account for why there is a sizescale in the first place, and why there is something (energymass) rather than nothing (spacetime). It reminds me of this passage: “HITCHENS: In other words, as the great physicist Laplace said when he demonstrated his working model (his orrery, as it’s called) of the solar system to the emperor and Napoleon said, “Well I see there’s no God in this system,” and Laplace said, “Well, Your Majesty, it works without that assumption.””
In this chapter I´ve presented three proofs for that the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in it i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated; we do represent something but however we choose to represent (even representations that can be proposed as thought-experiments if we were dead) we do not represent Reality i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality. Are there any counter-arguments saying that the size-time-diagram is finite? I built this lecture like a court case and I´d like to hear the opposing side. There are no arguments that oppose what I´ve proven so far.
Lecture 3
E=mc
2
E=mc
2
as an equation is only used in relativistic scenarios such as very high speed or very high energy, but since speed is a continuum the equation is true at slower speeds. There is a difference between the equation being applicable (being needed while solving equations) and it being true; it is always true everywhere but it is not needed for equations except in special scenarios.
An example of the equation being true everywhere and always is this: nuclear power-plants turn mass (kilograms) into energy (joule), so that if you input 1 kg of uranium-mass you get out 99.9999 kg of waste products – some of the mass turned into energy which lights our light-bulbs. The atoms that lost some weight (that weight was converted into energy) are atoms just like other kinds of atoms, for example in autumn leaves. If you´d drop leaves into the core of the sun, the sun´s nuclear furnace would turn mass in the leaves into energy (light). Hence all objects are subject to the E=mc
2
-rule, which states that energy (E) equals mass (m). This warrants the word energymass because they are no longer two distinct things – they are but different manifestations of the same thing. In the brain
energymass should be a single idea whilst the concepts “energy and mass” refers to two different forms of a single idea.
Verbs and adjectives tend to refer to energy (shining, running, etc.) while nouns refer to mass (body, tree, etc.) E=mc
2
states that the two (verbs/adjectives and nouns) are together in a single equation. Although only applicable in relativistic scenarios (the role of relativism becomes close to zero in everyday human events, except that our light-bulbs shine because mass turns into energy and the sun can makes leaves into light), E=mc
2
is in a “philosophical” sense true everywhere and always just like Pythagoras’s theorem about triangles remains “philosophically true” even where there are no physical triangles. You wouldn´t say 1=1 is not true in empty space just because there are no objects there to count as “1”.
In addition to energymass being a single concept (and not two distinct ones), spacetime gets added into the mix by the c
2
-part of the equation. c is the speed of light (km/h) and thus a distance (space) over time – spacetime! Energymass (E=m) and spacetime (c
2
) should in the brain be represented by a single idea which we can call energymasspacetime. This harkens back to the previous lectures about Reality, which is a synonym for energymasspacetime. Einstein invented the equation E=mc
2
and thus unified in it energymass with spacetime – and synonyms for energymass are “existence” or “1” while synonyms for spacetime are “non-existence”, “emptiness”, “nothing” and “zero”. There is no more to be considered regarding Reality than energymasspacetime; energymasspacetime involves everything (energymass) and nothing (spacetime) so there is nothing more to be considered/added to Reality – Reality is energymasspacetime; everything is included into Reality once we have defined Reality as energymasspacetime.
The Existential Theory
Each culture seems to have a creation myth (such as genesis) – the creation of the cosmos/world/Reality is something humans have invented hypotheses for during millennia. The stories answer the question “why are we here?”
The true answer is unintuitive. First of all: why is there any particular size? What justifies, say, the size of a molecule? The answer is: the smaller and the larger (the rest of the size-range). Atoms justify a molecule and a molecule exhibits a place for atoms to live in: justifies atoms. Humans need an earth to dwell on (the earth is larger) and humans are made of cells (cells are smaller). Each size bears a relationship upon each other size – the smaller justify the larger and the larger justify the smaller. Since the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all four corners of the square (because of the proof where we had two sides of a paper), the size-range is infinite i.e. the pattern of justification between/amongst sizes continues into the infinitely large and infinitely small. What the ancients called “the first cause” keeps retreating into infinity size-wise the more we contemplate it. The size-range is like a fractal: you can keep zooming in or out infinitely much, and the question “why is there this particular object that I see” has its answer in the relationship between all the sizes: justification. Infinite justification is the reason why there is a size-range at all. But there is more that is needed for a full-fledged existential theory: two more factors play their roles.
Spacetime is emptier than we can imagine/represent it. We (and all representeurs) are energymass and thus are the opposite of spacetime. We could let a piece of empty space represent spacetime, but as soon as we use energymass (such as our brains) to do so, we´ve lost the truly empty nature of
spacetime: it is unimaginably empty. Any bundle of neurons, no matter how we wire it, is still the opposite of what they want to represent when they want to present us with spacetime. It is therefore useful to have two concepts for spacetime: (1) our simplest intuition of spacetime and (2) additional defining language explaining that spacetime is emptier than (1). This is how exoplanet civilizations would wire their brains regarding the concept “spacetime” too, just because it’s the most accurate science they can manage.
Just like energy and mass are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon, energymass and spacetime are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon. What does it mean for spacetime to be bundled together with (intertwined with) energymass? Everything exists as/in/because of nothing; 1 exists in 0; energymass and spacetime are together in the E=mc
2
-equation. Where could energymass/existence exist? In nothingness. Just like sizes justify one another, spacetime justifies energymass.
The last question that remains, after we have justification between sizes in an infinite size-range, and that all points in the size-time-diagram are made of energymasspacetime (and energymass is justified by it being in spacetime), is the objective fact that there both is a single Reality (the right side of the paper) and there´s its opposite: distinction (between, say, thinker and thought).
The existential theory builds on three “pillars”/fundamental ideas:
An infinite sizescale,
Energymasspacetime as in the equation E=mc
2
Distinction between distinction itself and distinction´s opposite (see fig. 1, 2, 3):
Between distinction (the left side of the paper, our 2 certain truths: I exist and there is thought) and Reality (the opposite of distinction; one Reality (not plural)) there is a line that demarcates distinction/opposition.
Putting it all into one phrase we might say: “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime with opposition between distinction and Oneness”. At its core it´s three ideas (infinite size-time-diagram, energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
), separation and intertwinedness (the two sides of the paper)). On exoplanets they would state their reason for their own existence using these three ideas too, because taken together they explain all that needs to be explained: first thing that comes to mind is that in the stated existential theory there must be a reproducing shape (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape; a DNA-strand) somewhere. If the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all three corners, then evolution ought to occur somewhere (and be made of energymass in spacetime, while being separate/distinct in a single intertwined Reality).
Most creation-myths have a quite simple (one-pillared) and mundane story: for example genesis just states that God created Reality (that of which all is part) in 6 days and rested on the 7
th
. The scientific rival to all such creation stories is a three-pillared theory – we can´t make it any simpler (we can´t make it one-pillared) and the same would be the case on exoplanets: they too can only break it down to three interconnected ideas/pillars/fundaments, so in thinking this way we share a common intellectual history with exoplanet civilizations advanced enough to figure out this existential theory.
On a test on this subject a question might be: “what are the three pillars of the existential theory?” – the question can´t be “what is the most important pillar in the existential theory?” All pillars are equally important but constitute as distinct ideas as E=mc
2
is from infinite size, or the separation-intertwinedness-opposition (fig. 3).
This three-pillared creation story – the sum of these three chapters – is built upon logic: it includes certain truths like “I think and I exist” (distinction/separation), its opposite (Reality for which we have three proofs for that it can´t be observed/seen/contemplated i.e. the size-time-diagram is infinite), E=mc
2
which unifies nothing/spacetime with existence/energymass, and the relationship between any two sizes (justification along the infinite size-range). Every one of these ideas relates very closely to Descartes´ certain truth, meaning we can be sure of the ideas themselves – and they together build up a minimalist existential theory which needs no further logic to explain everything there is.
Having an infinite size-range has a predictive quality to it too – it makes a prediction: there ought to be evolution (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar mass) somewhere in the diversity we see throughout even the known size-range.
Though as non-intuitive as the 3-pillar existential theory may be to our evolved brains who want a single conclusion, exoplanet civilizations have the same limits and biases as us: they too are stuck with three pillars in a single theory to make the theory explainable. Science is creating universal (exoplanet) neural pathways in our brains. We should embrace the fact that by being non-intuitive but true, this science wires our brain based on science and thus universally. It is the way (the wiring) that all planets are headed to if they´re into science. It´s a universal world-view. We´re thinking like aliens.
In current scientific debates the religious will argue that faith (in a dogma) is needed to (what they call) “understand” the existence of the universe. If confronted with my theory (these lectures) they´d have to agree that logic makes their God unnecessary as a pillar of creation. In the best case scenario God is simply a synonym for Reality (because Reality is “that of which all is part” and thus God ought to be part of it too, and all we know about Reality is that it is energymass in spacetime and separation in intertwinedness).
Having an explanation – the negative side of it is it being three-pillared and unintuitive, the positive side of it being that it accounts for all of Reality and predicts evolution – further justifies the saying “a God of the gaps” (meaning the more we understand the less we need God). Now all that remains to be understood – again in an unintuitive but identical to exoplanets -way – is how, on an infinite time-line, the Big Bang (denseness) recreates and fades away into sparseness (black holes removing energymass and dark energy creating more space until no galaxies are anymore visible).
Lecture 4
The beginning of the Big Bang
I have a hard time imagining how the universe can reach complete emptiness, but it wouldn´t be the first time the universe´s nature surpasses human intuition. In the history of science stars were observed to not move relative to one another on the night sky, and this was argued to prove that the size of the universe was much smaller than the now known size – it was argued that the universe would be “unreasonably big” if the stars didn´t seem to move relative to one another as the earth moved because they were so far away.
If only enough time is needed for the universe to become empty, then we get the starting scenario which is most reasonable: we start with emptiness (spacetime). Again, spacetime is emptier than our concept for it because we (and our concepts) are made of energymass.
If you move your hand one meter (from position 1 to position 2), the laws of nature that make your hand make sense were already in place in the space of position 2 before you moved your hand there. It´s not like the universe/spacetime was absurd in location 2 and only started to make sense regarding hands when you moved your hand there. We do not impact the laws of nature in such ways; instead the laws of nature are simultaneously and equally true at all locations and all times. In other words: Pythagoras’s theorem is true even in locations where there are no objects whatsoever, but the theorem is only applicable (to be applied) to triangles. In empty space there are no objects and thus no triangles, but Pythagoras´s theorem is true there anyhow – it does not suddenly become true (switch from being untrue to true) when a triangle is imagined or physically moved there. This applies to E=mc
2
too, which is just as much of a law of nature as Pythagoras´s theorem. E=mc
2
is true everywhere and always, though humans only apply (use) the equation in certain scenarios. Where triangles can be (in spacetime) there is also E=mc
2
. Laws of nature are fundamental and inherent in spacetime and do not come about depending on events (though our application/use of any particular equation is dependent on which event we´re analyzing).
There is distinction between the practical use of equations (to solve problems or understand a phenomenon) and the core nature of spacetime having laws of nature in it. Spacetime is a no-nonsense spacetime – we live in a rational (laws of nature-abiding) universe.
One law being E=mc
2
and another one being “if it is said it must exist” (meaning energymass can´t be mentioned in the laws of nature of spacetime without energymass existing), we get spacetime to summon energymass if the starting-point was complete emptiness. “If energymass is mentioned it must be summoned” (it is mentioned in E=mc
2
) is true because it would be a nonsense universe if it “talks” about energymass without there being any – just infinite space for eternity with laws of nature regarding energymass, but never any energymass appearing/being present. It would be a nonsense universe if energymass it mentioned but never exists. It would be akin to the universe telling lies (having all these rules like E=mc
2
but never applying them to anything), or the universe babbling gibberish (having inapplicable laws of nature).
Thus, E=mc
2
being a core property of spacetime itself and the “no gibberish”-rule applying, energymass must logically be summoned – but how and where? Extremely dense i.e. everywhere, in the smallest spaces, simultaneously. Why? Our starting-point is spacetime, which needs no prior justification because it is the opposite of existence: it doesn´t exist – it is emptier than our neurons make it out to be. In it Einstein´s theory of relativity is true, meaning that there is no center point (or in other words: all points are the center) so there is no center to the Big Bang. Another way of seeing it is that as soon as there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification), E=mc
2
became true in all locations (in the smallest spaces) simultaneously – no point in space was before another in having E=mc
2
be true in it. Spacetime having E=mc
2
as a core property has E=mc
2
be true everywhere simultaneously; once we have the launching-condition of empty spacetime, through E=mc
2
, energymass is summoned everywhere simultaneously.
This “everywhere” is all things within an event horizon, meaning that things moving away faster than the speed of light (due to dark energy/accelerating cosmic expansion) are not within our event
horizon: they are not part of what can be reasonably called “our 3-dimensional space” (from our location). Things are not part of our universe once their speed hits faster than the speed of light – and many locations, within the boundaries of their respective event horizons, will one day have all energymass moving away from them at speeds faster than the speed of light (this is just the observed fact of accelerating cosmic expansion). Such a finite space with no energymass within its event horizon (all energymass moving away faster than the speed of light) would constitute “completely empty space” i.e. our starting-point for the Big Bang (energymass being summoned due to E=mc
2
).
Consider an infinite size-range - it is made of energymasspacetime: if we draw it as the Y-axis on a diagram, there can´t be a region/length in it (such as the knowable size-range) which is completely empty forever. See fig. 6.
Because of the rules E=mc
2
and “if it is mentioned it must be summoned”/”no-nonsense universe” are true throughout the infinite size-range, there can´t be a region with just spacetime (with its laws of nature) because the laws of spacetime mention energymass; spacetime is inherently tied to and intertwined with energymass – existence and non-existence go together (at all sizes). There would be no logical breaking-point (a particular size) where energymasspacetime transitions into being just spacetime for a range of sizes and then transitions back into energymasspacetime; there is no logical breaking-point where the implications of E=mc
2
(the implication being: energymass and spacetime are in the same equation) stop to be true. The transition seen in fig. 6 is impossible (there is no “empty region”). Having an empty region would be akin to zooming into the decimals of pi and seeing no numbers for a specific array of decimals: 3.14159ÄÄÄÄ265359... The Ä´s can´t be there: it´s a continuous sequence of decimal numbers. There is no break/”empty region” in the continuous decimals of pi just as there is no region of the size-range that can be empty of energymass.
In this chapter I´ve written something akin to “
first
there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification unless you consider that the size-axis of the size-time-diagram is infinite),
then
there was E=mc
2
,
then
there was energymass summoned into the smallest spaces available (available = considered to be within an event horizon and empty)”. This harkens back to previous lectures´ talk about “alien logic” (how exoplanets think). To have it make sense to our brains we use the time-
distinctions “first, then and then” but the real distinction is not in time but in steps in a sequence of logic. In other words all the mentioned steps happened simultaneously to start the Big Bang: E=mc
2
was true as soon as there was spacetime, and as soon as there was that, energymass appeared as not to make the universe absurd (by it talking gibberish or it having an empty region like in fig. 6).
The end of the Big Bang
Telescopes observe that “space is being born” i.e. that the distances between clumps of energymass (galaxies) are getting larger, and at an accelerating pace too. Not only does the Hubble law state that an object a
million light
-
years
away would be receding from us at 21 km/sec and at double the distance twice the speed, but the law states that that speed (for example 21 km/sec a million light years away) is increasing. This is called accelerating cosmic expansion. It means that from our galaxy, when/if we look into the sky trillions of years in the future, we´d see no trace of any other galaxy let alone the cosmic microwave background (because their speeds have passed the speed of light and thus went beyond the event horizon). Once that object a million light years away from us which today is racing away at 21 km/sec reaches 299792 km/sec (the speed of light), it will pass from being within our event horizon to being outside our sphere of events.
This empties our universe or as Hitchens put it: “nothingness is coming”. Once that nothingness comes we have our starting point where we run through the logic of E=mc
2
–> “if it is mentioned it must exist/be summoned” (in order for the universe not to talk gibberish or the infinite size-range not to have a break in it) –> energymass begins as dense (because of relativity and because E=mc
2
is true everywhere simultaneously/equally).
We observe that nothingness (within event horizons) is coming, and beginning from nothingness there is unintuitive logic that has a predictive quality to it: the Big Bang should start dense. This theory works well with lecture 2´s proofs for that “there is more to Reality than can be represented” (the size-time-diagram is infinite) because size is essentially space, and space and time are intertwined into a single spacetime – hence: if size/space is infinite then time must be infinite too. In other words we have reoccurring Big Bangs interspersed along the time-axis of our size-time-diagram. As soon as a region bound by an event horizon becomes empty we have the universe´s no-nonsense-laws kicking in and E=mc
2
summons energymass (in the smallest sizes that are empty equally/simultaneously).
The sequence of consecutive Big Bangs´ beginnings (emptiness leading to energymass being summoned) and ends (accelerating cosmic expansion speeding things past a point´s event horizon and emptiness being summoned) are as infinite as the time-axis proved to be based on lecture 2´s proofs. Proving (in lecture 2) that spacetime is infinite fits perfectly with the reoccurring Big Bangs (when somethingness becomes emptiness and then emptiness summons somethingness).
There will in other words, between the beginning of a Big Bang and the end of that same Big Bang, be life within the conscious/human size-range (the different locations of that size already being infinitely many, see fig. 4).
Each size along the size-axis is defined as “3-dimensional infinite space” meaning there is infinitely much life with access to universal science (i.e. some version of this lecture-series), and within our region (bound by an event horizon) there is life between the beginning and end of Big Bangs. In addition I have hard to believe that a reproducing shape (and thus evolution) only occurs in only
one
size-range (the, for humans, knowable size-range) in an infinite size-range: there ought to be many sub-size-ranges as part of the infinite size-range where evolution occurs and can reach scientific knowledge. All life mentioned above, if they reach scientific understanding, would concur on the existential theory presented in these lectures (especially lecture 3 – the three pillars/foundations/ideas which together become a minimalist theory for why there is the infinite size-range of energymasspacetime in the first place).
This is not only exoplanet science – it is science between Big Bangs and it is science in regions of the size-axis far away (in size) from our knowable size-range. See fig. 7.
Summary
First we looked at Descartes’ ”thought exists” and ”the self exists”, claimed that it was two valid statements and pointed out the distinction between them. On the other side of the paper we wanted to represent anti-distinction (the opposite of distinction) defined as “that of which all is part” (Reality), and realized that since thinker/thought is stuck on the left side of the paper we can’t represent Reality. This is not only Kant’s “the thing is not the thing itself (the mental map is not the real territory)” but more importantly whatever cannot be taken to represent “that of which all is part” i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality.
All we know about Reality (atoms, humans, galaxies) fit into a size-time-diagram (every object has a size and a time), so the minimalist approach combining the above paragraph with this one is to use the first paragraph to prove that the size-time diagram has infinite
axes. This in turn leads to an existential theory which can be summed up as “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime” – and it has a predictive quality to it: somewhere in such an existence there would be a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape and thus we get reproduction/evolution.
So far we’ve looked at the theory of why size itself exists, why there is something rather than nothing – an existential theory beginning from certain truth and logically building its way up all the way to predicting evolution.
Part 2: Evolution
My explanation of evolution focuses on how important disease and bullying (power) was for evolution.
Power
means that
fish
were
fighting fish breeding more agressive fish = dinosaurs, then wolfpacks with an alpha male.
But even before and after those eras in evolution the rule of power was in play.
In part one we had an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime (including the intertwinedness-separation-opposition and the time-axis with repeating Big Bangs perpendicular to the size-axis) that predicts a reproducing shape i.e. a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape: reproduction in an infinite size-range.
This infinite size-range predicts reproduction.
Part one was about why there is a sizescale of energymasspacetime: the answers are that the sizescale is infinite and that energymass is in spacetime. It predicts that there should be a reproducing shape: say that it is a triangle which gathers surrounding lines into a similar triangle – then it has reproduced itself. The products of this reproduction obey three rules: directly when there was reproduction three rules came into play, I´ve listed them below as 1, 2, 3 but they are not in order (they came simultaneously):
1:
There is life and death: those who survive survive and those who die are not in the game anymore. “The surviving survive”. It´s so simple – we see it in everyday life today. But everything in evolution will come back to these three rules so we might as well do the banal and bring them up.
So directly when there was a reproducing shape - so in our part of the size-range a DNA-strand which split in the middle and became two DNA-strands – the copy either survived or died.
2: The second rule is that the number of offspring has significance. That is to say: if you get one child or five children or ten children, there is a difference between those numbers – and in evolution it´s a benefit to have more children. One can also have zero children, and that is approximately like being dead.
Some would say that evolution´s meaning (the main task of life) is to make more offspring – that it´s the scientific meaning of life – Nature´s meaning: to reproduce. But I would answer that evolution makes more offspring (that´s reproduction) and making more offspring gives evolutionary benefits, but Nature itself does not care – it does not care about whether we nuke ourselves or not. There is no God that looks upon us and cares. Even reproduction becomes meaningless in the larger perspective. But in evolution it has significance whether one has zero offspring or ten offspring.
Rule number two (number of offspring matters) just as simple as rule number 1 (that there is life and death; that some live and some die).
The third rule that appered... – well all three rules appeared simultaneously directly when there was reproduction in this sizerange. The third rule is that:
3: There is mutation in every generation-shift. Things change. It doesn’t make perfect copies. Your child (if you have one) is not an exact copy of yourself or your wife – it’s a mutation; a change.
These three rules – 1: that there is life and death, the surviving survive. 2: That there are different nuances in the number of offspring. 3: That there is mutation in every generation-shift – these three rules came into play directly when the first reproduction occurred. We will return to these three rules over and over again; they are like laws of nature that like God says shall work on life directly when the first life reproduces itself. These laws of nature didn’t exist before the first life reproduced itself – they were not active then. They became active directly when there was reproduction.
These are abstract laws that we will manufacture, then we have the physical reality of that in a puddle of water a strand of DNA – a cell – made copies/offspring. Then viruses came into the game and injected its own DNA into the ordinary cells, that is to say: hijacked their reproductive system to create virus-offspring. If this would´ve continued the ocean would´ve been filled with only viruses, so there has to be some next step which made it so that our type of life survived. But the viruses added a 4
th
law (one of these abstract laws)
and that is: if you can hijack someone else’s reproductive system to create your own offspring; if you can inject your DNA into somebody else´s cell so that it creates viruses – I call this “power”. We will return to this word when we for example look at dinosaurs (they became bigger because the men killed each other to get the women whom make offspring). This power-principle was one that came after the three first ones.
The first cells reproduced and we had these three rules, then viruses came and injected their DNA and used “power” to produce more viruses. Then we get an immune-system which kills viruses i.e. protects the original organism´s reproductive system from being hijacked by viruses. So the immune-system evolved to take back the reproductive principle (2: the number of offspring matters); for the fact that one should retain the reproductive capability for oneself – so that no virus can take it over. So power has a lot to do with the number of offspring – principle 4 has a lot to do with principle 2.
We have multicellular organisms with immune-systems, we have viruses around them – and it´s an arms-race between that the viruses mutate to overcome the immune-system and the immune-
system mutates to overcome the virus. Thus we have an evolutionary pressure on mutating the immune-system as much as possible as fast as possible (because the viruses mutate very quickly), and the best way to do that is to combine genes from two different organisms: a man and a woman. So sex has its beginning in viruses.
If this doesn´t make you feel comfortable contemplate this: the truth outweighs positive-thinking. But does one want to remove whatever spreads joy among people? Those who want to defeat the religious violence in the world (I think religion is the biggest unnecessary cause of hatred in the world) – one cannot defeat that without defeating all religiousness simultaneously. To want to defeat one part of religion but not the rest of it is like voting for the Republicans and Democrats simultaneously – it´s just unreal. Sadly one must remove the good to remove the evil. Meditation still remains and one can get a kind of anxietylessness from some thoughts still but in the big picture there are no reasons that support them anymore – it´s just a brain-trick that one does.
In our evolutionary story we had an immune-system which mutates, wants more mutations – we get two genders. Then men begin to war with each other (because, metaphorically speaking, women can produce offspring once a year while men can produce it every day – we have an imbalance; asymmetry). Why is it always men that start wars? It began with the first fish – we had multicellular life in our story so far, so they became a bit bigger, could swim around – we get fish: it´s easier to find food then and easier to move around. Directly when there were two genders there was one fish which evolved to use its teeth for killing other male fish. The first aggressor of course got the most offspring because there were no other men around. That´s why men go to war: they can produce offspring with so many women while a woman has no benefit from having 1000 men.
There´s a caveat to
this once we get to caveman tribes/wolf-packs where a woman secretly wants many men to provide resources to her child, but at least in the era between fish and dinosaurs the picture was simply based on asymmetric reproductive rates.
So then the male fish grow more aggressive, the child who is the biggest and has the sharpest teeth kills the other male fish, has the most offspring; and in the next generation, again: the child with the most aggression and biggest muscles gets the most offspring – that´s how we get to dinosaurs and T-rex. We had males competing/fighting with each other and that´s why T-rex is so large. That is, again, the power-principle: just like viruses took over the reproductive system from the first cells, T-rex takes away the reproductive system from his rivals by killing them. So this principle number 4 (power) lives on – it has caused/causes so much: it causes the first viruses, it causes T-rex, that fish become aggressive, that we get two genders (by viruses getting power – so we wanted to counter that power by immune-systems i.e. two genders).
These dinosaurs then, just like humans don´t seem to have (sarcasm), any concept of preserving natural resources – so they would´ve eaten up all their trees and not had any food left. But on our planet it seems to have been a meteor-strike which wiped them out, but on exoplanets i.e. overall in this evolutionary series of evolutionary pressures causing various principles (first the three first principles, then the 4
th
principle, immune-systems, two-genderedness, bigger
fish, fights between the fish, dinosaurs). The dinosaurs ate their natural resources and all large life dies - so only small rat-like/squirrel-like life-forms live on.
The trees grow back up – we get monkeys.
Groups tend to, in a fight – if it´s a group against an individual (one against many) – the group tends to win. So we monkeys form groups, fighting together for food against individualists. The individualists lost.
So we got this - or had it from the get-go (just like with the first aggressors) – instinct that makes us want to be highest in the hierarchy and thereby get all the women. Power again. But this time it´s a kind of human power – we saw power when viruses took over the reproductive systems, we saw power when dinosaurs outcompeted their rivals (the men), we see power when a bully goes to the top of the hierarchy, pushes down the other men – and the women want the bully´s resources (he has the most stuff) so they´re attracted to him, so he gets the most offspring – out of his offspring the one that is best at getting power the one that gets most offspring.
The reason for why the brain grew so fast during the past 100 000 years was because we used the brain to plan for how to climb upward in the hierarchy. The reproductive benefits coming from being high-status in the hierarchy were so great comparing to being low-status that this put great selection-pressure on bigger brains.
Now we basically have caveman living in hierarchical societies, we have kings, aristocrats and slaves – and that is how the world was 5000 years ago. The kings build monumental architecture (pyramids and such). Then someone focused on a random word – so someone focused on what we talked about in part 1: Reality (that of which all is part) and realized one cannot see it (because we should be part of it, or the other two proofs for not being able to see all there is to Reality) and thus they invented the word God: it is one, one cannot see it – we have the dawn of monotheism.
Someone random-focused on the word “soul/self” too and realized one gets less anxiety by making a distinction between the body
one sees in ones imaginations
21.12
Author
yonis
Posted on
30/11/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Latest version of my book
Del 2: Evolutionsteorin
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/del2-interse-evolution.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
14/11/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Del 2: Evolutionsteorin
Lecture 4
lecture-4
Author
yonis
Posted on
10/11/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Lecture 4
Few pages (Var vi är – where we are; the existential theory)
Var vi är
Varje bok som försöker få med sig alla i att ha en enda världsbild bör börja med Descartes säkra sanning. I mitten av 1600-talet omgavs Rene Descartes av multipla ”hur gjorden skapades”-teorier, den mess påtalade för honom var den kristna ”jorden skapades på 6 dagar och Gud vilade på den 7e”. Descartes, enligt mig, var på ett ateistiskt spår i.om. att han tvivlade på alla de skapelsemyter som fanns runtomkring honom. Han var före sin tid i.om. att han både uppfann koordinatsystemet och ”cogito ergo sum” (”jag vet helt säkert att jag tänker och att jag finns”). Här har vi en man som klurade ur att hans egna existens är 100% säker att tro på, och han gjorde detta genom att kasta bort all kunskap som han inte var 100% säker på. Man kan antingen säga att han gjorde tankeexperimentet att han möjligtvis var en hjärna i en skål som matades med elektriska signaler så att den trodde att den hadde en kropp osv, eller att en allsmäktig demon lurade honom i allt han kan luras i, eller det som skedde i filmen The Matrix. Det som kvarstod var att hans ”jag” existerade eftersom att bli lurad innebär att existera; det finns någon som blir lurad för denna någon att bli lurad i allt han kan bli lurad i. Likaså finns tankevärlden eftersom [att bli lurad] är att tänka; tankar finns om de så är lurade eller inte. Alltså uppfann Descartes ”jaget existerar” och ”tanken existerar”. Detta kan utvidgas till att separation (mellan tanken och jaget) existerar; de är två separata ting. Nu har vi alltså jaget, tanken och separationen som helt säkra sanningar. Målet med denna bok är att övertyga alla om en enda världsbild (som står i konflikt med andra skapelseberättelser, Adam och Eva, osv), och hittills håller alla med om det som står gällande Descartes uppfinning. Den här boken är byggd så att vi går enligt logikens metoder, steg för steg, från Descartes säkra sanning till att förklara var vi är, vad vi är osv (de stora frågorna).
Från Descartes tre sanningar (inkl separation som är en av dem) kan man gå längs två spår: ena alternativet är att fråga sig vad motsatsen till separation är och definera den som ”det som allt är del av”. Andra alternativet är att rita det koordinatsystem Descartes uppfann med två axlar: storlek på ena axeln och tid på andra (ett storleks-tids-diagram). Båda vägar är direkta spinoffs från Descartes säkra sanning om att han tänker och han finns.
Om man frågar sig vad motsatsen till Descartes separation är, så blir svaret meningen ”det som allt är del av” där ordet ”det” bör bördan av att hänvisa till någonting som inkluderar allt. Ingen separation existerar i den – den är motsatsen till separation. Vi kommer återkomma till den i framtiden då vi frågar oss huruvida vi kan se/röra/percipiera den ifall observation är separation (och separation ej får finnas i den). I forntida skrifter kallades den ”Gud” eller ”Verkligheten” eftersom dess definition är ”det som allt är del av (inkl. Gud)”.
Vi har idén vars definitioner är ”motsatsen till separation” och ”det som allt är del av” och vi kan kalla den ”Gud”, ”Verkligheten” eller vad vi vill. I framtiden kommer vi härleda att vi inte kan se/observera/percipiera den som sådan (som dellös), så att ha ett ord för den är lite som när judarna vägrar säga ”yahwe” om sitt mest övergripande koncept. Att ha ett ord för den skapar bara förvirring eftersom vi är vana vid att se varje ord, men nu har vi ett koncept som vi i framtiden kommer härleda inte kan ses (eftersom observation är separation och vi ”försöker se” motsatsen till separation).
Det andra spåret som börjar direkt från Descartes är att rita ett Cartesiskt coordinatsystem med en vertikal axel och och horisontell axel: på den vertikala axeln representerar man storlek (kosmologi högst upp, människans storlek i mitten, kvantfysik längst ned) och på den horisontella axeln representerar man tid. Detta går att göra eftersom Descartes hittade separation dvs rum i vilken man kan rita abstraka diagram såsom storleks-tids-diagrammet. Allt man känner till har en storlek och en tid dvs passar in i någon punkt i det kvadratformade diagrammet.
Ur Descartes säkra sanning kan man alltså, via separation, fråga A) vad är motsatsen till separation?, och B) rita ett rektangulärt storleks-tids-diagram. Dessa A) och B) saknar funktion hittills, men kommer kombineras så att de bygger upp varandra.
Where we are
In the previous pages I contrast Einstein (the inventor of spacetime and energymass – and thus energymasspacetime as a synonym of Reality). With Descartes’ certain truth of self and separation between observer and object and object/thought. Einstein symbolizes intertwinedness/[the oneness of Reality]/[energymasspacetime as a single word/concept] or [God if you have that vocabulary]. Separation is the opposite of that wordless energymasspacetime; the jews call it Yahwe but don’t say the word because observation is separation and separation isn’t in observerless intertwinedness oneness / [opposite of separation]. We are in the observers’ realm inevitably (there are two realms: one which we are in by being thought-bound describers. And the other realm is needless to try to set words to, but E=mc2 did it by joining energymass and spacetime (c is spacetime/speed).
I also, in addition to putting Einstein and Descartes as opposites (opposing realms – we are in one realm), the first paper states that there is an existential theory (cosisting of three ideas). The three ideas are like points on a PowerPoint:
– separation and intertwinedness (that same intertwinedness we can’t see by being observers)
–	energymass with spacetime (E=mc2 connects them together; energymass is all movement and body, spacetime is the space your body occupies and time is the 4th dimension).
–	an infinite sizerange.
That the sizescale is infinite is like a court case with three (two major) arguments for that the sizescale is infinite:
–	with our human brain, that brain can notice the fact that it cannot see Reality/[that of which all is part]/the opposite of separation. Then ask whether there is a maximum or minimum size in that (I propose) infinite sizerange? It doesn’t make sense to ask for size nor maximum range because they’d have to be separate (period). Separate from anything. Separation itself makes a “maximum size” impossible.
–	but it might be different in the universe itself, so we ask the same question: does separation exist by there being a maximum/minimum size in our known sizescale (which ranges from cosmology, through astronomy, down to anatomy, cellular biology and quantum physics at the smallest known.
–	a third proof for that the sizerange is infinite, now having gone through both the subjective and the objective proofs, is the least convincting truth: that you can’t put yourself in front of you. Since what you are observing is supposed to include everything in it, you can’t possibly be outside it observing it. Again we repeat that opposition/separation/”outsideness” is not in the unseeable Reality (defined as energymasspacetime)/[that of which all is part].
A pseudo-mneumonic for remembering this is: that of which all is part (Reality) cannot be observed (because obserservation is separation). It proves that there is more to Reality than a brain, a computer or any other object can represent. Not even what the brain does: uses less matter (the flesh of the brain) to represent something like a galaxy (much more mass). In a thought experiment we can let the smallest known particle or bit of space, represent the largest known or more. The “more” is important because we are allowed to represent anything, even infinitey minus 1 much. There is more to Reality than can be contemplated.
Since Descartes certain truth lets us draw in the separation that is inevitably there (by virtue of lacking that intertwinedness we spent so many synonyms on already). We can draw both a world as we see it, or we can abstractly draw a size-time-diagram (Cartesian coordinate system – look how far ahead of his time his two great ideas would unite) with infinity-symbols at all four corner of the rectangle (the size-time-diagram is a rectangle – something for universal scientific merchendize).
Size-time justification exists between any two arbitrarily chosen points in time, or sizes in the size-range. There’s a size-time-reason for anything and everything that happens. The size-time-diagram has infinitely many points available because there is more than we can ponder i.e. the size-time-diagram is infinite.
Since we touched on Descartes and Einstein being opposites (in their ideas of course), how does one prove that ones theory is correct? It connects back to itself – if you are well enough to make the associations. For example: the infinity of the abstract space gives a natural intuition that this existential theory (here the sizerange, but it is connected to the two other ideas which hold the rest of the theory, namely evolution and the brain, on its foundation). The foundation is three ideas: separation-intertwinedness-opposition, energymass-spacetime unity and the proven fact that the sizescale is infinite. It can be drawn using infinity symbols given our limited brain and limited diagram to draw the infinity symbols in. Drawing on Descartes and Einstein we can prove why there is a sizescale – and time is also infinite, the Big Bang regenerating using logic. The logic is the following (without time/spacing in between):
– our universe expands as black holes remove energymass from 3-dimensional space (the curvature of space is infinite). When no more mass is present in our 3-dimensional space – and mass is needed for Einstein’s E=mc2 not to be absurd.
–	Emptienss with its laws of nature (including geometrical ones applying to mass and E=mc2) would be absurd if mass is mentioned in its laws but would’ve “be observed (as a ritual)”, i.e. the universe must summon mass if there is no mass in order for E=mc2 to remain true.
–	this obviously, since there are empty small spaces in our universe, applies to when there is complete emptiness i.e. when all star-system have swiwelled into the supermassive black hole in the galaxy center. There is in other words a long time of no place to bear life in the history of the universe; life exists only in the beginning and the vast majority of timespans between Big Bangs have as their only event black holes swallowing lifeless spacerocks and stars. The fuel in stars that result in supernovae will be reborn into new stars over and over again, but once only iron and other lifeless mass remains, there will be no fuel for new stars. After that comes the black holes swallowing all that used-to-bear-life mostly iron mass. That might take a while longer than there was life in the universe – the universe is after all not geared for life but generates it for a rational purpose: the sizescale is infinite (and of energymass in spacetime).
How do I prove this is how the size-axis re-creates a Big Bang every now and then? For one, since its “spacetime” and we drew infinity-symbols on our abstract size-time-diagram in every corner of the rectangle. Time and space, though different axises on our diagram, are united thanks to Einstein (into spacetime).
All this is rather more beautiful and complicated than “God created earth in 6 days and rested on the 7th” – its a totally different kind of creation story. It answers the Big Question: why are we? We have a three-idea existential theory part of which is the infinity of the sizerange; and we know there is more than we can contemplate i.e. the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all its 4 corners.
To some readers it seems like I´m preaching to the choir, but think of the debate still going on with people claiming the earth is 6000 years ago. Isn’t an infinite sizescale a more convincing creation story? It assumes there is “intelligence” in the cosmos just as there is logos in our perception, but as a creation story: present them with my current work and even as they tend to argue against, they will have to admit that the earth is not 6000 years old. The whole God-debate boils down to whether God is exactly synonymous with Reality/energymasspacetime/[that of which all is part]. We can through rationaly find the phrase/idea [that of which all is part] as useful, and once we welcome it into our vocabulary, God must be part of  [that of which all is part].
That of which all is part also is called energymasspacetime and a size-time diagram is the minimal you need to understand why we are.
Those who believe in God must have never heard the phrase [that of which all is part], and that all we know about this Reality fits in a size-time-diagram. [That of which all is part] is also the synonym for energymasspacetime/Reality, which’s existence is supported by three ideas: separation-intertwinedness, energymass-spacetime, an infinite sizescale.
The debate is between sentences like “God created the universe” versus my complex abstract theory. [That of which all is part] having a God outside it; an infinite sizescale with infinite time with a God outside it. I prefer God being a synonym for Reality. That’s Einstein’s God.
That leaves the Adam and Eve-story untouched as of yet, but having a reproducing shape in some size range in an infinite sizerange…
Author
yonis
Posted on
24/10/2016
28/10/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Few pages (Var vi är – where we are; the existential theory)
Posts navigation
Page
1
Page
2
Next page
Search for:
Search
Recent Posts
From Certain Truth to Dinosaurs (with Maan and Marwan)
War and Boredom
2 Nobel Prizes
V 2-4
Existential theory (2)
Recent Comments
Archives
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
Categories
Dagbok
Old
The book + diagrams
Trashcan
Trey
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.org
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Proudly powered by WordPress

Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen – Everyone needs to know the basics
Skip to content
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Everyone needs to know the basics
Talet 3
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/talet-3.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
17/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Talet 3
Sammanfattning universell kurs interse 11-01-2017
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/sammanfattning-universell-kurs-interse-11-01-2017.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
11/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Sammanfattning universell kurs interse 11-01-2017
From Certain Truth to Dinosaurs (with Maan and Marwan)
Author
yonis
Posted on
05/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on From Certain Truth to Dinosaurs (with Maan and Marwan)
War and Boredom
War-and-Boredom
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen, Sweden
1
War and Boredom
The title of this book refers to that it is hard to get through this book. The reason why this new science (that I present in this book) hasn’t been discovered until I did is because part 1 of this book gives a sense of meaninglessness toward the Universe and part 2 deals with evolution in a depressing way because the main trend is “power”.
Writing it gave me anxiety and reading it gives many people anxiety.
But the question is: does everyone agree on it? If they do, that changes the Israel-Palestine-conflict where the parties of God are vetoing
regarding the borders of
the
“holy land”; it changes religious extremism and the wars fought over it. Religion is the biggest cause for hatred
in the world, as Hitchens said. My book
is
a minimalist theory
that
encompasses all one needs to understand
Everything: existence (why there is size itself) and
evolution – even thoughts about the future of humanity/evolution.
Even though there comes a sense of meaninglessness from knowing the existential theory and a sense of depression from knowing evolution, there is
a sense of
honor in having the right world-view.
Most importantly, the religious wars - ISIS/Israel/etc. - can be demolished by a world-view which everyone agrees on. War only continues because it is boring to learn and teach the course I present in this book. Hence the book´s name: War and Boredom, or: how boredom (toward science) keeps the wars continuing.
Not only can this book end wars, but it can unify people so that they feel more friendliness toward each other – science is a language and speaking the same language makes it easier to make friends. Having the same associations between concepts (a scientific world-view) gives people a lot to agree on, they´ll “speak the same language”.
If anyhow you get too bored to study further, there are three parts to this book (1: the existential theory, 2: evolution, 3: the dawn of religion), and they’re written with different styles. You may jump to either part directly.
Lecture 1
Descartes
One of the aims of this course is to get EVERYONE to agree so that they have the same associations between scientific concepts.
There is no other proper way to accomplish this goal than by starting with certain truth, which was found by Descartes in the 1600s. He lived in a time where they believed in demons, Gods etc. so he postulated a thought experiment where he assumed an almighty demon was fooling him in everything he could be fooled in: what would remain as certain truth – what could he not be fooled in?
If he was being fooled, where would still be a “he” (or self) there to be fooled, meaning that the self certainly exists. A self is necessary for a self to be fooled.
Descartes had thus concluded his own existence.
Being fooled is thinking – thus thought exists. “There is thought” Descartes concluded as certain truth. The word “fooling” represents a thought-process.
Descartes found the starting-position for any inquiry about truth: we can know certainly that thinker and thought exists.
Distinction exists (a logical conclusion from the above)
Looking at what we´ve found as certain truth so far “from above” (meta), we can take the next logical step – adding a third factoid to our 2-statement (A and B above) starting position: that there is distinction (
between
thinker and thought). The fact that thinker and thought are two separate entities concluded to be certain truth
s
through two
different
logical pathway
s
lets us conclude that “distinction exists”
. There are what Chinese philosophy calls “the ten thousand things” (referring to the world) – there are at least two (three if we include “distinction” as th
e third thing) certain entities, and empirically we know there are “ten thousand things” (not taking the number 10 000 literally but just referring to multiplicity).
First universal diagram
We can draw the thinker and thought and distinction between them as two dots with a line between them on a piece of paper (fig. 1).
Now we have something all religions agree on
– we´ve drawn up ideas and associations between them. Everyone ought to have the same associations (explanatory thoughts) between the concepts we´ve looked at so far.
We have, if you will – in figure 1 – a universal diagram.
Reality
We have the capability to conglomerate many separate entities under the rubric of a single category. If we use this capability to collect the “ten thousand things” (distinct entities) we´ve found so far into a single thing, we ought to give that thing a word/name. Its definition can be “that of which all is
part” and “the opposite of separation/distinction”. I will use the word Reality to refer to this all-encompassing thing.
In lecture 2 I will present three proofs for that “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, but for now we can draw (adding to figure 1) a dot with a cross over it – the cross to symbolize that the dot itself is a false representation of Reality because we (the observer/self/thinker) should be part of that dot. See fig 2.
Thinking about what we´ve got so far
Thinking about what we´ve got so far (fig. 2) it’s a bundle of associations which make universal inter-religious (all religions agree on it) knowledge with both words and pictures.
In the next lecture I present why the line in fig 2 (see fig 3) represents the opposition/antagonism/disagreement/contraposition/divergence/variance between the two sides of the paper; between “thinker and thought” on one side of the paper and “Reality (that of which all is part; the opposite of separation)” on the other side of the paper.
Worth noting now is that the left side of the paper represents separation/distinction whilst the right side of the paper represents the opposite of separation/distinction – both are legitimate ideas: thinker and thought – and distinction – is certain truth based on Descartes and we all know which idea we refer to when talking about the all-encompassing [that of which all is part] Reality.
In the next lecture we will talk about why the line in fig. 3 makes it so that we can´t see Reality – I will present three proofs like in a crime case, and we will talk about what we can see if we can´t see Reality.
Making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far
1
See fig. 1 again: it´s our starting-point and the thinking that occurs in it happens in Descartes “realm of mind”; it is the mind´s realm (the left side of the paper) in which the thinking happens, and one thing we talk about is Reality on the right side of the paper in fig 3. Since the line in fig. 3 represents both the legitimacy of the ideas on both sides of the paper, and simultaneously the opposition between separation/distinction (on the left side of the paper) and [the opposite of separation/distinction] on the right side of the paper. That opposition is important and I will show its significance in lecture 2.
2
Starting from Descartes realm (of if you will: assuming that all we know is what we know for certain), we have the capability to state that there is a single Reality of which all is part – so even though we see separation we must grant that that separation (all entities) fits into a category we call Reality. There is a unifying whole even though the human mind (Descartes realm) is limited in its ways when it tries to contemplate Reality.
Not only is there the map-territory distinction (which will be presented as one out of three proofs in lecture 2), but there is also a more fundamental opposition between distinction and its opposite (there is a more fundamental opposition between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3). Not only are we stuck in the map-territory-distinction-realm but we also can conclude that no representation (regardless of the mind) is equal to Reality (on a more fundamental level than the map-territory-problem).
Representation is done in the brain using neurons and in a computer using electrons, but there is no reason why the most distant atom or quark couldn´t be proposed to be a symbol for [that of which all is part] – and even in that brainless scenario we will see in lecture 2 that “that of which all is part cannot be represented”. The map-territory-distinction is just proof/evidence number two in lecture 2 (for that we cannot see Reality and thus, since we do see/represent something, there must be more to Reality than can be represented i.e. the size-time-diagram (presented in lecture
2) is infinite along both axes.
Proof 3 in lecture 2 removes the brain from the equation and still proves that there is more to Reality than can be seen/represented/symbolized (using any means/any method – even without a brain), and since some representation is obviously (since we know that there are minds) possible, there must be more than can be represented/contemplated i.e. the size-axis is infinite and the time-axis is infinite in that two-axis diagram.
3
Both sides of the paper in fig. 3 are legitimate ideas. But still they are opposites (separation on one side and the opposite of separation on the other side). How can two derived-from-logic sides of the paper be opposites but still both be legitimate?
Usually opposition – like between Democrats and
Republicans – means that one is right and the other is wrong; they can´t both simultaneously be right: you can´t meaningfully vote for both parties at the same time.
The case is different between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3: both sides are right and they are opposites.
There is a single Reality and there is multiplicity in distinction.
What does this mean? That there is more to the size-time-diagram than anything could represent – any representation fails (you can think of some examples/suggestions for how to represent [that of which all is part]/[the opposite of separation]) – and thus the axes on the size-time-diagram are infinite. This is a hither to unpresented fact in science – it is new science: some of the best scientists ignorantly believe that the size-range is limited/finite.
4
We have quite a few associations and symbols in fig. 3 which must be agreed upon, and here I´m using the word “must” in the sense that “by the rules of logic X must be true”. Other civilizations throughout the infinitely many galaxies there are use the exact same ideas (but in a different language) and have the same associations between them (that there are infinitely many galaxies is derived from that the size-axis in the size-time-diagram is infinite). There is distinction as the third truth to be added to Descartes two fundamental truths (thinker and thought exist), and all that is opposed to (on the other side of the paper in fig. 3) to the all-encompassing Reality which is defined using at least two definitions: that of which all is part and the opposite of separation.
I´m tri-lingual but I write the same ideas and associate them in the same ways no matter which language I write in – its universal science beginning from certain truth. On other planets that have civilizations my writings in this book ought to match up quite near to the writings creating the same lecture series based on universal science that I´m creating
– “alien”/exo-planet
lecture series proceed, beginning from certain fact, through logical steps as I do.
5
[Thinker and thought] (certain truth) and thus distinction/separation are associated through negation/opposition to the right side of the paper in figure 3: Reality. The left side is not the right side just like separation is not its opposites. Both being legitimate ideas, though, connects them in the way that thinker and thought (and all other distinct entities) are in the category Reality.
Even though Reality and distinction are opposites, distinction dwells in (as a sub-entity within the category) Reality.
The associations between the left and right sides of the paper in figure 3 are both united through the notion “opposition” and through the notion that distinction is inherent in Reality (Reality being the opposite of distinction
because we have all-encompassing and its opposite: composite parts).
6
It is certainly true that all is part of a single Reality; but it is equally true that in every observation there is an observer and hence distinction (between thinker and thought). We see separate entities is as true as that the self that we are is not in front of us – but everything we see (thought/object) is in front of us.
That is evidence 1 in lecture 2 (not a proof, but a mere suggestion/evidence that [that of which all is part cannot be observed] and thus there is more to Reality than our concept of [infinitely much].
All we know about Reality has two properties: a size and a time. Size and time are two axes on a diagram, and thus all we know fits into the size-time-diagram (every object or location in space
has a size and time).
There is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram because all suggested representors for Reality fail
(for three reasons taken up in lecture 2).
7
All
bundles of associations in this chapter “making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far”
are written in order to create some universal brain structures (universal because science is the same everywhere (on all exo-planets), and their brains make the same associations too eventually). It´s not some random bundle of associations nor did I randomly present random ideas.
I assume the brain structure created by understanding this book is a replica of something derived from science; a replica of brain structures on the infinitely many other civilization-bearing planets. It´s a universal “ideology”, if you will.
Everyone has a possibility of sharing it in agreement – and future lectures will add a whole lot of complexity to it; agreement tends to build friendship so study is a way of bringing more peace to the world.
Once the full world-view is presented throughout this book, it´s a way of pacifying the world.
8
We have two brain-halves: one linguistic and one visual. So far we´ve both drawn pictorial representations and connected words – both brain-halves have been working. The connections across corpus collosum (which sits between the brain-halves and connects them) that connect a linguistic narrative/explanation to the pictorial representations are one day found in all humans thanks to science. Our brains are becoming more as science has a propensity to make them be.
This course itself, since it begins with certain truths and builds upon it logically, is a universal course (to the best of my ability).
The brain cells that constitute the negation (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 3) or opposition are not the same kind of cells (they are inhibitory neurons) that connect thinker with though as both being certain truths (but the thinker is not the thought and thus has inhibitory cells making that brain-structure work too
(what you are is not in front of you;
what you are is not visible).
Since both Reality and [what you are]/self/observer/thinker are invisible the brain might erroneously and spontaneously try to associate them, so a brain-structure is needed to inhibit that association (and replace it with a more complex explanation). That spontaneous but erroneous association is something all thinking animals throughout the universe evolved to do, and the inhibition of it through culture/civilizing/science is universally available within complex enough civilizations throughout the universe.
As you can see the brain structures responsible for doing this thing are quite complex, but also universal and thus accessible to all humans, and predictably will someday be in all humans (fostering agreement, thus friendship, thus peace).
Lecture 2
Perceive, apprehend, notice are synonyms for our representing ability, but I will use the word “see” or “observe” to refer to all of these. The goal of this lecture is to prove the statement “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, Reality being defined as “that of which all is part”. In other words: we cannot see Reality, and thus there is more to Reality than even can be contemplated (i.e. infinitely much).
I will build this lecture like a criminal court case: I will present three proofs for that we cannot see Reality i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated i.e. (since we can contemplate anything (right or wrong)) Reality is infinite.
Since anything/everything we know about Reality has some size and time, it fits into a size-time-diagram. See fig. 4.
In fig. 4 size is represented along the vertical axis and time along the horizontal axis. The objects humans see in everyday life (from the horizon to a single cell as one “pixel” in our visual field) are marked in “the human range”.
See fig 5.
In fig. 5 I´ve drawn the same diagram as in fig. 4 but this time with infinity-symbols in each corner of the squareical size-time-diagram. Two infinite axes become a square.
Proof number 3 in our “court case” for proving that the size-time-diagram (Reality) is infinite has us imagine the unobservable separatenessless Reality and ask whether there is a maximum or minimum size to/in it (a maximum/minimum being separateness while we are talking about the opposite of separation). This is again to confirm that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes.
The line we drew in fig. 4 was for separating the two sides of the paper; opposing “thinker and thought” (distinction) with its opposite: one all-encompassing non-distinction Reality. That opposition-line is what this lecture is about since it proves that the two sides of the paper are separate/opposing realms and we are stuck in one realm as long as we are observers (because observation is separation/distinction (thinker and thought)).
Proving that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes is new science because it poses the question: what happened before the Big Bang (14 billion years ago), and it presents one pillar of our existential theory: that each size is the reason for each next and previous size, and the size axis is infinite, meaning the “beginning” of the relationship between sizes keeps retreating into infinity the more we contemplate the range of the size axis.
When I presented fig. 4 for the first time I drew a cross over the dot symbolizing Reality for the plain reason that we (as observers) should be part of that dot, and by the very nature of us being separate (and the dot representing the opposite of separation) we should draw a cross over it symbolizing that we cannot see it.
The main proof though is that even if all observers were dead there´d still be, inherent and fundamental in nature, the opposition between distinction and distinction´s opposite (the two sides of the paper in fig. 4). The line is an opposition-line and it is more fundamental than being dependent on humans/observers – it refers to all representation whether it’s using/including humans or not. I am, in other words, not talking about the map-territory distinction (which symbolizes that humans have mental maps and not the real world per se; like Kant said: we have “the thing” and not “the thing itself”). Proof 2 – the opposition-line between the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 – is not subjective: it is true that we live with the map-territory-distinction but even if I died there´d still be separate things (chairs separate from cups), that kind of separation is not dependent on me/observers. Simultaneously the flipside of the coin (the other side of the paper in fig. 4) is true too: all is one single Reality (the opposite of separation). Proof 2, in other words, should not be interpreted as signifying the map-territory distinction (human subjectivity) but instead a fundamental opposition in the universe.
If we do not see Reality, then what do we see? Everything we see fits into the size-time-diagram, and since the opposition-line in fig. 4 shows that there is a fundamental rule that states, in 3 different proofs, that Reality is infinite / there is more than can even be contemplated / there is more than even non-subjective representation can represent.
Proof number 1 is really weaker than a “proof” – it´s more like evidence. It wouldn´t hold up in a court but it is a way of stating what the other proofs too point towards. Proof 1 is what we saw when presenting figure 4: any dot representing Reality is an incorrect representation because the observer should be part of the object – the thinker should be part of the thought. It denies Cartesian separation and thus is untrue, meaning that anything we draw on the right side of the paper in fig. 4 is incorrect.
We can contemplate anything: we can speculate about what´s smaller than quantum physics, or even what´s smaller than that, etc. into infinity. We are probably wrong, but any contemplation/representation counts as a contemplation – and since we know that, whether right or wrong as our contemplations may be, there is more to Reality than can be contemplated, it follows
that there must be infinitely much to Reality. Since all we know about Reality fits into a size-time-diagram, the minimalist approach is to state that it´s the size-time-diagram that is infinite.
This warrants two new words: the knowable/known size-range and the infinite size-range. The knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range. Since Einstein unified space (size) and time, one cannot be infinite without the other one being the same. Science today doesn´t know whether there was a “before” to the Big Bang or not (whether time was created at the Big Bang), but now we know that the Big Bang is just an event on an infinite time axis. In a future lecture we will talk about how/why the Big Bang recreates (happens over and over).
We talked about universal diagrams (and universal brain-structures) in lecture 1. The size-time-diagram is one major universal diagram. A lot of detail can be added to it because all fields of science fit into it. The infinity-symbols on each axis of the squareical diagram are drawn, based on science, on exo-planets with advanced enough civilizations.
This lecture is about proving that [that of which all is part] (the opposite of separation) i.e. Reality cannot be observed/represented, and that this fact is true irrespective of whether we are observers or dead, and applying this to the size-time-diagram (which gets its infinity-symbols into the squareical diagram).
Proof number 2 (the main proof) is the oppositional approach between Reality and distinction, and it is not subjective because Reality and Reality´s opposite exist even if we were dead. Proof number 3 is about imagining (even though no imagination is it) Reality as a big gray (because energymass is white and spacetime is black) solid, in which we know no observer should be (because observation is separation) – does it have separation i.e. a biggest and a smallest size? No, because such distinctions are not in the opposite of distinction (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 4).
I´ve mentioned universal associations in the brain / exo-planet science, so talking about the size-time-diagram we can add more universal notions to it: why did I draw upwards on the size axis as larger and downward as smaller? Why is the time-axis horizontally drawn instead of vertically? The diagram works even if we would define the vertical axis as time and the horizontal axis as size – so why do we draw size vertically and time horizontally? Is it universal i.e. on other planets or just a human convention like writing from left to right in English-speaking countries and right to left in Arabic-speaking countries?
Evolution has it so that during the history of science telescopes look upward and microscopes look downward. This would be the case on other planets too: they turn their heads upward to see the large and downward (onto a table) to see the small; the opposite can´t be true on any planet. Thus we get the size axis´ standard (of upward being larger) from evolution / the history of science. I use the word “standard” because it comes from evolution rather than being more fundamentally hard-wired into the universe such as the fact that the size-time-diagram is a square with infinity symbols. That the size-time-diagram is a square is not a standard – it is something stronger than that. The fact that we represent time on the vertical axis (and upward as larger) comes from a weaker source: tradition (even though that same tradition is true on all planets; evolution, in this regard, happens the same on all planets that end up with civilizations).
We thus have added standards or weak conventions (derived from history) in addition to having strong diagrams like the size-time-diagram being a square. The distinction between the two is made based on science and is thus made on exo-planets.
Scientists are looking for exo-planets that bear civilizations. If the size-range is infinite – as we´ve proven that it is – then each particular size (like the human range in fig. 5) is infinite too; if the largest is infinitely large then there is, considering the size of a human, an infinite distance in any direction that that human could find itself in. This makes civilizations on other planets a must, not an assumption. The known/knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range, and within the known size-range there is a range in which evolution occurs (between the smallest cells and the biggest organisms), and since we´ve proven that there are infinitely many objects within/of that size-range, then there must be infinitely many locations in which evolution occurs.
In the next lecture we will bind together the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 (distinction and distinction´s opposite; “thinker and thought” opposing Reality) with E=mc
2
(energymasspacetime) and with the infinity of the size-time axes, into a single existential theory which is a rival to “God created earth in 6 days…” The existential theory is a minimalist account for why there is a sizescale in the first place, and why there is something (energymass) rather than nothing (spacetime). It reminds me of this passage: “HITCHENS: In other words, as the great physicist Laplace said when he demonstrated his working model (his orrery, as it’s called) of the solar system to the emperor and Napoleon said, “Well I see there’s no God in this system,” and Laplace said, “Well, Your Majesty, it works without that assumption.””
In this chapter I´ve presented three proofs for that the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in it i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated; we do represent something but however we choose to represent (even representations that can be proposed as thought-experiments if we were dead) we do not represent Reality i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality. Are there any counter-arguments saying that the size-time-diagram is finite? I built this lecture like a court case and I´d like to hear the opposing side. There are no arguments that oppose what I´ve proven so far.
Lecture 3
E=mc
2
E=mc
2
as an equation is only used in relativistic scenarios such as very high speed or very high energy, but since speed is a continuum the equation is true at slower speeds. There is a difference between the equation being applicable (being needed while solving equations) and it being true; it is always true everywhere but it is not needed for equations except in special scenarios.
An example of the equation being true everywhere and always is this: nuclear power-plants turn mass (kilograms) into energy (joule), so that if you input 1 kg of uranium-mass you get out 99.9999 kg of waste products – some of the mass turned into energy which lights our light-bulbs. The atoms that lost some weight (that weight was converted into energy) are atoms just like other kinds of atoms, for example in autumn leaves. If you´d drop leaves into the core of the sun, the sun´s nuclear furnace
would turn mass in the leaves into energy (light). Hence all objects are subject to the E=mc
2
-rule, which states that energy (E) equals mass (m). This warrants the word energymass because they are no longer two distinct things – they are but different manifestations of the same thing. In the brain energymass should be a single idea whilst the concepts “energy and mass” refers to two different forms of a single idea.
Verbs and adjectives tend to refer to energy (shining, running, etc.) while nouns refer to mass (body, tree, etc.) E=mc
2
states that the two (verbs/adjectives and nouns) are together in a single equation. Although only applicable in relativistic scenarios (the role of relativism becomes close to zero in everyday human events, except that our light-bulbs shine because mass turns into energy and the sun can makes leaves into light), E=mc
2
is in a “philosophical” sense true everywhere and always just like Pythagoras’s theorem about triangles remains “philosophically true” even where there are no physical triangles. You wouldn´t say 1=1 is not true in empty space just because there are no objects there to count as “1”.
In addition to energymass being a single concept (and not two distinct ones), spacetime gets added into the mix by the c
2
-part of the equation. c is the speed of light (km/h) and thus a distance (space) over time – spacetime! Energymass (E=m) and spacetime (c
2
) should in the brain be represented by a single idea which we can call energymasspacetime. This harkens back to the previous lectures about Reality, which is a synonym for energymasspacetime. Einstein invented the equation E=mc
2
and thus unified in it energymass with spacetime – and synonyms for energymass are “existence” or “1” while synonyms for spacetime are “non-existence”, “emptiness”, “nothing” and “zero”. There is no more to be considered regarding Reality than energymasspacetime; energymasspacetime involves everything (energymass) and nothing (spacetime) so there is nothing more to be considered/added to Reality – Reality is energymasspacetime; everything is included into Reality once we have defined Reality as energymasspacetime.
The Existential Theory
Each culture seems to have a creation myth (such as genesis) – the creation of the cosmos/world/Reality is something humans have invented hypotheses for during millennia. The stories answer the question “why are we here?”
The true answer is unintuitive. First of all: why is there any particular size? What justifies, say, the size of a molecule? The answer is: the smaller and the larger (the rest of the size-range). Atoms justify a molecule and a molecule exhibits a place for atoms to live in: justifies atoms. Humans need an earth to dwell on (the earth is larger) and humans are made of cells (cells are smaller). Each size bears a relationship upon each other size – the smaller justify the larger and the larger justify the smaller. Since the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all four corners of the square (because of the proof where we had two sides of a paper), the size-range is infinite i.e. the pattern of justification between/amongst sizes continues into the infinitely large and infinitely small. What the ancients called “the first cause” keeps retreating into infinity size-wise the more we contemplate it. The size-range is like a fractal: you can keep zooming in or out infinitely much, and the question “why is there this particular object that I see” has its answer in the relationship between all the sizes: justification. Infinite justification is the reason why there is a size-range at all. But there is more that is needed for a full-fledged existential theory: two more factors play their roles.
Spacetime is emptier than we can imagine/represent it. We (and all representeurs) are energymass and thus are the opposite of spacetime. We could let a piece of empty space represent spacetime, but as soon as we use energymass (such as our brains) to do so, we´ve lost the truly empty nature of spacetime: it is unimaginably empty. Any bundle of neurons, no matter how we wire it, is still the opposite of what they want to represent when they want to present us with spacetime. It is therefore useful to have two concepts for spacetime: (1) our simplest intuition of spacetime and (2) additional defining language explaining that spacetime is emptier than (1). This is how exoplanet civilizations would wire their brains regarding the concept “spacetime” too, just because it’s the most accurate science they can manage.
Just like energy and mass are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon, energymass and spacetime are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon. What does it mean for spacetime to be bundled together with (intertwined with) energymass? Everything exists as/in/because of nothing; 1 exists in 0; energymass and spacetime are together in the E=mc
2
-equation. Where could energymass/existence exist? In nothingness. Just like sizes justify one another, spacetime justifies energymass.
The last question that remains, after we have justification between sizes in an infinite size-range, and that all points in the size-time-diagram are made of energymasspacetime (and energymass is justified by it being in spacetime), is the objective fact that there both is a single Reality (the right side of the paper) and there´s its opposite: distinction (between, say, thinker and thought).
The existential theory builds on three “pillars”/fundamental ideas:
An infinite sizescale,
Energymasspacetime as in the equation E=mc
2
Distinction between distinction itself and distinction´s opposite (see fig. 1, 2, 3):
Between distinction (the left side of the paper, our 2 certain truths: I exist and there is thought) and Reality (the opposite of distinction; one Reality (not plural)) there is a line that demarcates distinction/opposition.
Putting it all into one phrase we might say: “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime with opposition between distinction and Oneness”. At its core it´s three ideas (infinite size-time-diagram, energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
), separation and intertwinedness (the two sides of the paper)). On exoplanets they would state their reason for their own existence using these three ideas too, because taken together they explain all that needs to be explained: first thing that comes to mind is that in the stated existential theory there must be a reproducing shape (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape; a DNA-strand) somewhere. If the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all three corners, then evolution ought to occur somewhere (and be made of energymass in spacetime, while being separate/distinct in a single intertwined Reality).
Most creation-myths have a quite simple (one-pillared) and mundane story: for example genesis just states that God created Reality (that of which all is part) in 6 days and rested on the 7
th
. The scientific rival to all such creation stories is a three-pillared theory – we can´t make it any simpler (we can´t make it one-pillared) and the same would be the case on exoplanets: they too can only break it down to three interconnected ideas/pillars/fundaments, so in thinking this way we share a common intellectual history with exoplanet civilizations advanced enough to figure out this existential theory.
On a test on this subject a question might be: “what are the three pillars of the existential theory?” – the question can´t be “what is the most important pillar in the existential theory?” All pillars are
equally important but constitute as distinct ideas as E=mc
2
is from infinite size, or the separation-intertwinedness-opposition (fig. 3).
This three-pillared creation story – the sum of these three chapters – is built upon logic: it includes certain truths like “I think and I exist” (distinction/separation), its opposite (Reality for which we have three proofs for that it can´t be observed/seen/contemplated i.e. the size-time-diagram is infinite), E=mc
2
which unifies nothing/spacetime with existence/energymass, and the relationship between any two sizes (justification along the infinite size-range). Every one of these ideas relates very closely to Descartes´ certain truth, meaning we can be sure of the ideas themselves – and they together build up a minimalist existential theory which needs no further logic to explain everything there is.
Having an infinite size-range has a predictive quality to it too – it makes a prediction: there ought to be evolution (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar mass) somewhere in the diversity we see throughout even the known size-range.
Though as non-intuitive as the 3-pillar existential theory may be to our evolved brains who want a single conclusion, exoplanet civilizations have the same limits and biases as us: they too are stuck with three pillars in a single theory to make the theory explainable. Science is creating universal (exoplanet) neural pathways in our brains. We should embrace the fact that by being non-intuitive but true, this science wires our brain based on science and thus universally. It is the way (the wiring) that all planets are headed to if they´re into science. It´s a universal world-view. We´re thinking like aliens.
In current scientific debates the religious will argue that faith (in a dogma) is needed to (what they call) “understand” the existence of the universe. If confronted with my theory (these lectures) they´d have to agree that logic makes their God unnecessary as a pillar of creation. In the best case scenario God is simply a synonym for Reality (because Reality is “that of which all is part” and thus God ought to be part of it too, and all we know about Reality is that it is energymass in spacetime and separation in intertwinedness).
Having an explanation – the negative side of it is it being three-pillared and unintuitive, the positive side of it being that it accounts for all of Reality and predicts evolution – further justifies the saying “a God of the gaps” (meaning the more we understand the less we need God). Now all that remains to be understood – again in an unintuitive but identical to exoplanets -way – is how, on an infinite time-line, the Big Bang (denseness) recreates and fades away into sparseness (black holes removing energymass and dark energy creating more space until no galaxies are anymore visible).
Lecture 4
The beginning of the Big Bang
I have a hard time imagining how the universe can reach complete emptiness, but it wouldn´t be the first time the universe´s nature surpasses human intuition. In the history of science stars were observed to not move relative to one another on the night sky, and this was argued to prove that the
size of the universe was much smaller than the now known size – it was argued that the universe would be “unreasonably big” if the stars didn´t seem to move relative to one another as the earth moved because they were so far away.
If only enough time is needed for the universe to become empty, then we get the starting scenario which is most reasonable: we start with emptiness (spacetime). Again, spacetime is emptier than our concept for it because we (and our concepts) are made of energymass.
If you move your hand one meter (from position 1 to position 2), the laws of nature that make your hand make sense were already in place in the space of position 2 before you moved your hand there. It´s not like the universe/spacetime was absurd in location 2 and only started to make sense regarding hands when you moved your hand there. We do not impact the laws of nature in such ways; instead the laws of nature are simultaneously and equally true at all locations and all times. In other words: Pythagoras’s theorem is true even in locations where there are no objects whatsoever, but the theorem is only applicable (to be applied) to triangles. In empty space there are no objects and thus no triangles, but Pythagoras´s theorem is true there anyhow – it does not suddenly become true (switch from being untrue to true) when a triangle is imagined or physically moved there. This applies to E=mc
2
too, which is just as much of a law of nature as Pythagoras´s theorem. E=mc
2
is true everywhere and always, though humans only apply (use) the equation in certain scenarios. Where triangles can be (in spacetime) there is also E=mc
2
. Laws of nature are fundamental and inherent in spacetime and do not come about depending on events (though our application/use of any particular equation is dependent on which event we´re analyzing).
There is distinction between the practical use of equations (to solve problems or understand a phenomenon) and the core nature of spacetime having laws of nature in it. Spacetime is a no-nonsense spacetime – we live in a rational (laws of nature-abiding) universe.
One law being E=mc
2
and another one being “if it is said it must exist” (meaning energymass can´t be mentioned in the laws of nature of spacetime without energymass existing), we get spacetime to summon energymass if the starting-point was complete emptiness. “If energymass is mentioned it must be summoned” (it is mentioned in E=mc
2
) is true because it would be a nonsense universe if it “talks” about energymass without there being any – just infinite space for eternity with laws of nature regarding energymass, but never any energymass appearing/being present. It would be a nonsense universe if energymass it mentioned but never exists. It would be akin to the universe telling lies (having all these rules like E=mc
2
but never applying them to anything), or the universe babbling gibberish (having inapplicable laws of nature).
Thus, E=mc
2
being a core property of spacetime itself and the “no gibberish”-rule applying, energymass must logically be summoned – but how and where? Extremely dense i.e. everywhere, in the smallest spaces, simultaneously. Why? Our starting-point is spacetime, which needs no prior justification because it is the opposite of existence: it doesn´t exist – it is emptier than our neurons make it out to be. In it Einstein´s theory of relativity is true, meaning that there is no center point (or in other words: all points are the center) so there is no center to the Big Bang. Another way of seeing it is that as soon as there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification), E=mc
2
became true in all locations (in the smallest spaces) simultaneously – no point in space was before another in having E=mc
2
be true in it. Spacetime having E=mc
2
as a core property has E=mc
2
be true everywhere
simultaneously; once we have the launching-condition of empty spacetime, through E=mc
2
, energymass is summoned everywhere simultaneously.
This “everywhere” is all things within an event horizon, meaning that things moving away faster than the speed of light (due to dark energy/accelerating cosmic expansion) are not within our event horizon: they are not part of what can be reasonably called “our 3-dimensional space” (from our location). Things are not part of our universe once their speed hits faster than the speed of light – and many locations, within the boundaries of their respective event horizons, will one day have all energymass moving away from them at speeds faster than the speed of light (this is just the observed fact of accelerating cosmic expansion). Such a finite space with no energymass within its event horizon (all energymass moving away faster than the speed of light) would constitute “completely empty space” i.e. our starting-point for the Big Bang (energymass being summoned due to E=mc
2
).
Consider an infinite size-range - it is made of energymasspacetime: if we draw it as the Y-axis on a diagram, there can´t be a region/length in it (such as the knowable size-range) which is completely empty forever. See fig. 6.
Because of the rules E=mc
2
and “if it is mentioned it must be summoned”/”no-nonsense universe” are true throughout the infinite size-range, there can´t be a region with just spacetime (with its laws of nature) because the laws of spacetime mention energymass; spacetime is inherently tied to and intertwined with energymass – existence and non-existence go together (at all sizes). There would be no logical breaking-point (a particular size) where energymasspacetime transitions into being just spacetime for a range of sizes and then transitions back into energymasspacetime; there is no logical breaking-point where the implications of E=mc
2
(the implication being: energymass and spacetime are in the same equation) stop to be true. The transition seen in fig. 6 is impossible (there is no “empty region”). Having an empty region would be akin to zooming into the decimals of pi and seeing no numbers for a specific array of decimals: 3.14159ÄÄÄÄ265359... The Ä´s can´t be there: it´s a continuous sequence of decimal numbers. There is no break/”empty region” in the continuous decimals of pi just as there is no region of the size-range that can be empty of energymass.
In this chapter I´ve written something akin to “
first
there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification unless you consider that the size-axis of the size-time-diagram is infinite),
then
there was E=mc
2
,
then
there was energymass summoned into the smallest spaces available (available = considered to be within an event horizon and empty)”. This harkens back to previous lectures´ talk about “alien logic” (how exoplanets think). To have it make sense to our brains we use the time-distinctions “first, then and then” but the real distinction is not in time but in steps in a sequence of logic. In other words all the mentioned steps happened simultaneously to start the Big Bang: E=mc
2
was true as soon as there was spacetime, and as soon as there was that, energymass appeared as not to make the universe absurd (by it talking gibberish or it having an empty region like in fig. 6).
The end of the Big Bang
Telescopes observe that “space is being born” i.e. that the distances between clumps of energymass (galaxies) are getting larger, and at an accelerating pace too. Not only does the Hubble law state that an object a
million light
-
years
away would be receding from us at 21 km/sec and at double the distance twice the speed, but the law states that that speed (for example 21 km/sec a million light years away) is increasing. This is called accelerating cosmic expansion. It means that from our galaxy, when/if we look into the sky trillions of years in the future, we´d see no trace of any other galaxy let alone the cosmic microwave background (because their speeds have passed the speed of light and thus went beyond the event horizon). Once that object a million light years away from us which today is racing away at 21 km/sec reaches 299792 km/sec (the speed of light), it will pass from being within our event horizon to being outside our sphere of events.
This empties our universe or as Hitchens put it: “nothingness is coming”. Once that nothingness comes we have our starting point where we run through the logic of E=mc
2
–> “if it is mentioned it must exist/be summoned” (in order for the universe not to talk gibberish or the infinite size-range not to have a break in it) –> energymass begins as dense (because of relativity and because E=mc
2
is true everywhere simultaneously/equally).
We observe that nothingness (within event horizons) is coming, and beginning from nothingness there is unintuitive logic that has a predictive quality to it: the Big Bang should start dense. This theory works well with lecture 2´s proofs for that “there is more to Reality than can be represented” (the size-time-diagram is infinite) because size is essentially space, and space and time are intertwined into a single spacetime – hence: if size/space is infinite then time must be infinite too. In other words we have reoccurring Big Bangs interspersed along the time-axis of our size-time-diagram. As soon as a region bound by an event horizon becomes empty we have the universe´s no-nonsense-laws kicking in and E=mc
2
summons energymass (in the smallest sizes that are empty equally/simultaneously).
The sequence of consecutive Big Bangs´ beginnings (emptiness leading to energymass being summoned) and ends (accelerating cosmic expansion speeding things past a point´s event horizon and emptiness being summoned) are as infinite as the time-axis proved to be based on lecture 2´s proofs. Proving (in lecture 2) that spacetime is infinite fits perfectly with the reoccurring Big Bangs (when somethingness becomes emptiness and then emptiness summons somethingness).
There will in other words, between the beginning of a Big Bang and the end of that same Big Bang, be life within the conscious/human size-range (the different locations of that size already being infinitely many, see fig. 4).
Each size along the size-axis is defined as “3-dimensional infinite space” meaning there is infinitely much life with access to universal science (i.e. some version of this lecture-series), and within our region (bound by an event horizon) there is life between the beginning and end of Big Bangs. In addition I have hard to believe that a reproducing shape (and thus evolution) only occurs in only
one
size-range (the, for humans, knowable size-range) in an infinite size-range: there ought to be many sub-size-ranges as part of the infinite size-range where evolution occurs and can reach scientific knowledge. All life mentioned above, if they reach scientific understanding, would concur on the existential theory presented in these lectures (especially lecture 3 – the three pillars/foundations/ideas which together become a minimalist theory for why there is the infinite size-range of energymasspacetime in the first place).
This is not only exoplanet science – it is science between Big Bangs and it is science in regions of the size-axis far away (in size) from our knowable size-range. See fig. 7.
Summary
First we looked at Descartes’ ”thought exists” and ”the self exists”, claimed that it was two valid statements and pointed out the distinction between them. On the other side of the paper we wanted to represent anti-distinction (the opposite of distinction) defined as “that of which all is part” (Reality), and realized that since thinker/thought is stuck on the left side of the paper we can’t represent Reality. This is not only Kant’s “the thing is not the thing itself (the mental map is not the real territory)” but more importantly whatever cannot be taken to represent “that of which all is part” i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality.
All we know about Reality (atoms, humans, galaxies) fit into a size-time-diagram (every object has a size and a time), so the minimalist approach combining the above paragraph with this one is to use the first paragraph to prove that the size-time diagram has infinite
axes. This in turn leads to an existential theory which can be summed up as “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime” – and it has a predictive quality to it: somewhere in such an existence there would be a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape and thus we get reproduction/evolution.
So far we’ve looked at the theory of why size itself exists, why there is something rather than nothing – an existential theory beginning from certain truth and logically building its way up all the way to predicting evolution.
Part 2: Evolution
My explanation of evolution focuses on how important disease and bullying (power) was for evolution.
Power
means that
fish
were
fighting fish breeding more agressive fish = dinosaurs, then
wolfpacks with an alpha male.
But even before and after those eras in evolution the rule of power was in play.
In part one we had an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime (including the intertwinedness-separation-opposition and the time-axis with repeating Big Bangs perpendicular to the size-axis) that predicts a reproducing shape i.e. a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape: reproduction in an infinite size-range.
This infinite size-range predicts reproduction.
Part one was about why there is a sizescale of energymasspacetime: the answers are that the sizescale is infinite and that energymass is in spacetime. It predicts that there should be a reproducing shape: say that it is a triangle which gathers surrounding lines into a similar triangle – then it has reproduced itself. The products of this reproduction obey three rules: directly when there was reproduction three rules came into play, I´ve listed them below as 1, 2, 3 but they are not in order (they came simultaneously):
1:
There is life and death: those who survive survive and those who die are not in the game anymore. “The surviving survive”. It´s so simple – we see it in everyday life today. But everything in evolution will come back to these three rules so we might as well do the banal and bring them up.
So directly when there was a reproducing shape - so in our part of the size-range a DNA-strand which split in the middle and became two DNA-strands – the copy either survived or died.
2: The second rule is that the number of offspring has significance. That is to say: if you get one child or five children or ten children, there is a difference between those numbers – and in evolution it´s a benefit to have more children. One can also have zero children, and that is approximately like being dead.
Some would say that evolution´s meaning (the main task of life) is to make more offspring – that it´s the scientific meaning of life – Nature´s meaning: to reproduce. But I would answer that evolution makes more offspring (that´s reproduction) and making more offspring gives evolutionary benefits, but Nature itself does not care – it does not care about whether we nuke ourselves or not. There is no God that looks upon us and cares. Even reproduction becomes meaningless in the larger perspective. But in evolution it has significance whether one has zero offspring or ten offspring.
Rule number two (number of offspring matters) just as simple as rule number 1 (that there is life and death; that some live and some die).
The third rule that appered... – well all three rules appeared simultaneously directly when there was reproduction in this sizerange. The third rule is that:
3: There is mutation in every generation-shift. Things change. It doesn’t make perfect copies. Your child (if you have one) is not an exact copy of yourself or your wife – it’s a mutation; a change.
These three rules – 1: that there is life and death, the surviving survive. 2: That there are different nuances in the number of offspring. 3: That there is mutation in every generation-shift – these three rules came into play directly when the first reproduction occurred. We will return to these three rules over and over again; they are like laws of nature that like God says shall work on life directly when the first life reproduces itself. These laws of nature didn’t exist before the first life reproduced itself – they were not active then. They became active directly when there was reproduction.
These are abstract laws that we will manufacture, then we have the physical reality of that in a puddle of water a strand of DNA – a cell – made copies/offspring. Then viruses came into the game and injected its own DNA into the ordinary cells, that is to say: hijacked their reproductive system to create virus-offspring. If this would´ve continued the ocean would´ve been filled with only viruses, so there has to be some next step which made it so that our type of life survived. But the viruses added a 4
th
law (one of these abstract laws)
and that is: if you can hijack someone else’s reproductive system to create your own offspring; if you can inject your DNA into somebody else´s cell so that it creates viruses – I call this “power”. We will return to this word when we for example look at dinosaurs (they became bigger because the men killed each other to get the women whom make offspring). This power-principle was one that came after the three first ones.
The first cells reproduced and we had these three rules, then viruses came and injected their DNA and used “power” to produce more viruses. Then we get an immune-system which kills viruses i.e. protects the original organism´s reproductive system from being hijacked by viruses. So the immune-system evolved to take back the reproductive principle (2: the number of offspring matters); for the fact that one should retain the reproductive capability for oneself – so that no virus can take it over. So power has a lot to do with the number of offspring – principle 4 has a lot to do with principle 2.
We have multicellular organisms with immune-systems, we have viruses around them – and it´s an arms-race between that the viruses mutate to overcome the immune-system and the immune-system mutates to overcome the virus. Thus we have an evolutionary pressure on mutating the immune-system as much as possible as fast as possible (because the viruses mutate very quickly), and the best way to do that is to combine genes from two different organisms: a man and a woman. So sex has its beginning in viruses.
If this doesn´t make you feel comfortable contemplate this: the truth outweighs positive-thinking. But does one want to remove whatever spreads joy among people? Those who want to defeat the religious violence in the world (I think religion is the biggest unnecessary cause of hatred in the world) – one cannot defeat that without defeating all religiousness simultaneously. To want to defeat one part of religion but not the rest of it is like voting for the Republicans and Democrats simultaneously – it´s just unreal. Sadly one must remove the good to remove the evil. Meditation still remains and one can get a kind of anxietylessness from some thoughts still but in the big picture there are no reasons that support them anymore – it´s just a brain-trick that one does.
In our evolutionary story we had an immune-system which mutates, wants more mutations – we get two genders. Then men begin to war with each other (because, metaphorically speaking, women can produce offspring once a year while men can produce it every day – we have an imbalance; asymmetry). Why is it always men that start wars? It began with the first fish – we had multicellular life in our story so far, so they became a bit bigger, could swim around – we get fish: it´s easier to find food then and easier to move around. Directly when there were two genders there was one fish which evolved to use its teeth for killing other male fish. The first aggressor of course got the most offspring because there were no other men around. That´s why men go to war: they can produce offspring with so many women while a woman has no benefit from having 1000 men.
There´s a caveat to
this once we get to caveman tribes/wolf-packs where a woman secretly wants many men to provide resources to her child, but at least in the era between fish and dinosaurs the picture was simply based on asymmetric reproductive rates.
So then the male fish grow more aggressive, the child who is the biggest and has the sharpest teeth kills the other male fish, has the most offspring; and in the next generation, again: the child with the most aggression and biggest muscles gets the most offspring – that´s how we get to dinosaurs and T-rex. We had males competing/fighting with each other and that´s why T-rex is so large. That is, again, the power-principle: just like viruses took over the reproductive system from the first cells, T-rex takes away the reproductive system from his rivals by killing them. So this principle number 4 (power) lives on – it has caused/causes so much: it causes the first viruses, it causes T-rex, that fish become aggressive, that we get two genders (by viruses getting power – so we wanted to counter that power by immune-systems i.e. two genders).
These dinosaurs then, just like humans don´t seem to have (sarcasm), any concept of preserving natural resources – so they would´ve eaten up all their trees and not had any food left. But on our planet it seems to have been a meteor-strike which wiped them out, but on exoplanets i.e. overall in this evolutionary series of evolutionary pressures causing various principles (first the three first principles, then the 4
th
principle, immune-systems, two-genderedness, bigger
fish, fights between the fish, dinosaurs). The dinosaurs ate their natural resources and all large life dies - so only small rat-like/squirrel-like life-forms live on.
The trees grow back up – we get monkeys.
Groups tend to, in a fight – if it´s a group against an individual (one against many) – the group tends to win. So we monkeys form groups, fighting together for food against individualists. The individualists lost.
So we got this - or had it from the get-go (just like with the first aggressors) – instinct that makes us want to be highest in the hierarchy and thereby get all the women. Power again. But this time it´s a kind of human power – we saw power when viruses took over the reproductive systems, we saw power when dinosaurs outcompeted their rivals (the men), we see power when a bully goes to the top of the hierarchy, pushes down the other men – and the women want the bully´s resources (he has the most stuff) so they´re attracted to him, so he gets the most offspring – out of his offspring the one that is best at getting power the one that gets most offspring.
The reason for why the brain grew so fast during the past 100 000 years was because we used the brain to plan for how to climb upward in the hierarchy. The reproductive benefits coming from being
cchigh-status in the hierarchy were so great comparing to being low-status that this put great selection-pressure on bigger brains.
Now we basically have caveman living in hierarchical societies, we have kings, aristocrats and slaves – and that is how the world was 5000 years ago. The kings build monumental architecture (pyramids and such). Then someone focused on a random word – so someone focused on what we talked about in part 1: Reality (that of which all is part) and realized one cannot see it (because we should be part of it, or the other two proofs for not being able to see all there is to Reality) and thus they invented the word God: it is one, one cannot see it – we have the dawn of monotheism.
Someone random-focused on the word “soul/self” too and realized one gets less anxiety by making a distinction between the body
one sees in ones imaginations
(the body in one´s plans which tries to get reproduction, survival, resources, power, etc. – the three evolutionary principles that we listed in the beginning of this chapter). One sees a body in front of oneself which tries to make plans to get these things. But it is not that body which is “true” – instead it´s the observer which sees this body
which is “True” – and one cannot see that observer because one is it all the time. This was when they invented the Soul.
So the words God and Soul are legitimate concepts – then the church added a bunch of things like “the soul is immortal” and that “God said this and that to one or another person” (prophets and so on whom lied about a bunch of things). We also have the Golden Rule “do onto others like you would like to have them do onto you” which is a universal thing that they surely have on other planets: we are all humans, we want to be treated as of equal value. So from evolution we went from having cavemen to that someone came up with these
simple
thoughts, and then the church added a bunch of clutter to them. We thus have religions´ beginnings. The ideas of soul (the True self/observer which can´t be seen) and God (that of which all is part is One) are scientific ideas – so to some extent we have the beginnings of science.
Then people invented the telescope and microscope (to discover the sizes in the size-range), and we have a lot of knowledge and upbringing – but this is more intellectual history instead of biological history/evolution – but the intellectual has its foundation in the biological. So now we have gone through the whole story from the first cells to the birth of science.
I try to make this into a theory that is agreed upon by everyone; nowadays there are people who say that God (defined as a metaphysical mind) is needed to understand the theory of evolution – that there are mysteries within evolution. But I see no mysteries in this.
In a future book we will look at consciousness: which kind of emotional repertoire we have. We already said that we want power, we want reproduction, we want resources… But we will look closer at exactly which emotions exist and into which categories one can categorize them – and why they came about (what their evolutionary histories/pressures are). Which exact emotions? The feeling that one wants power, the feeling that one wants to help the flock, the feeling that one wants to plan how to get reproduction… - everything we do / the things that we do. For example I wrote this book because I´m at “war” with the enemies of civilization (“the enemy tribe”), because I want power out of selling this, reproduction out of getting status from having found a new way of describing some things, helping
countries ravaged by religion to become civilized (“helping flock-members”)…
These things drive me to do something intellectual. The emotional repertoire – that is to say: the diagrams about the brain – we can look at in the next book, because now we´ve looked at evolution and evolution created the brain so there is a lot of overlap.
Part 3:
The dawn of religion
No-one knows which kind of God emerged first (in protohuman minds). Was it the contemplation on Part 1 of this book (the oneness of Reality and it’s unrepresentability – focusing on the most all-encompassing concept)? Was there a war between two tribes/groups and to avoid soldiers from deserting one’s own group, the priest/king claimed to get his orders from a super-human invisible entity (which “looks better” than a mere human giving orders). Thinking
“they have a superhuman invisible commander while our group is just mere humans” is demoralizing for the group believing that the enemy has something mystical super-human communicating with their leadership. This kind of god is a tool of war. Or was the first God invented in dog-brain sized brains where a simple cortical circuit (the assotiations: the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) lessened anxiety.
We are after-all craving for the approval of “the hierarchical top”, we fear it... we have all kinds of emotions toward it and it can be imagined to love me, to dictate procedures like prayers to me, etc. It’s such a simple cortical circuit to define the hierarchy’s top as “that of which all is part (Reality)” and say that it loves me. That’s basically three concepts (hierarhical top (Reality) protecting me) – and it alliviates anxiety and gets us through dark nights of the soul. For the simple reason that it feels good to activate that circuit we try to “drug ourselves” by activating it over and over, emphasizing our belief in it, teaching it to everybody. The “hierarchical top (defined as Reality) protects me”-emotion
is one of those good feelings that we can activate at will. When we genetically engineer super-positive feelings to be activated by words, those new animals will propably activate their best emotions like a drug-addict seeks drugs – but they can activate it with words.
The circuitry is simple enough and panic attacks are common enough that I think everyone activates that “...protects/loves me”-circuitry during their life-time. Some choose to call it “belief in God”, others “the hierarchical top (defined as that of which all is part) protects me” and others don’t use any words for it because it is as unnoticable as digestion – something that naturally occurs in certain circumstances and one doesn’t need to be arrogant or proud of having that circuitry because it’s like 3-4 concepts (memorizing 4 concepts whom’s associations make us feel better is not a big feat).
Whichever type of God came first is lesser of a question, though, than: is heaven the same thing? Can “heaven” (and “hell”) be interpreted in a way that it makes sense? Heaven is obviously not a location in the sizerange (we don’t move in the sizerange when we die), so is heaven outside the entire theory (and thus “outside” (though this thing has no outside) that of which all is part)? No. Heaven may be synonomous to being good, and not some location in the diagram.
Maybe heaven is what the future genetically engineered super-happy animal will be in all the time.
Summary
Now that we know the three-pillar existential theory (like infinitely many extraterrestrials in infinite space thinks about it), we’ve got the beginning of evolution with a tiny DNA-strand (first reproduction sparking the three first evolutionary rules (1,2,3) and then the 4
th
(power). At the same time we see a continuum all the way to understand religions.
Since the infinitely many extraterrestrials are like us – they share the same logical evolutionary principles in sets following one another along time in a triangle-shape because increasing complexity is shown along the triangle.
It’s not like I don’t sometimes focus on the sentence “top of the hierarchy (defined as that of which all is part) loves and protects me” (“belief in God” in religious language).
Aliens can also prioritize what to focus on; what to take more off and what one wants to take less of. Aliens “judge” us based on principles like maximum happiness for all (animals, all humans), “do onto others like you’d want them do to yourself”. These are simple universal rules that aliens follow to maximize happiness in an otherwise brutal dog-eat-dog world.
What’s worth noticing
in this whole book
is the existential theory which predicts a tiny DNA-strand is more interesting because it is HOW God created the universe, or if you prefer: you remove God and the existential theory rests firmly on its three pillars.
To me, the core of religion seems to be different emotions to and from the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”). The context of course is hierarchical animals which were preceded by group-dwelling animals (we talked about this in part 2 of this book: evolution).
Having a simplistic association of concepts (merely the 3-4
concepts: hierarchical top – defined as that of which all is part – protects/loves/etc me) gives a relief of anxiety, fear, loneliness etc. Having the more complex picture of the same thing – the context surrounding it – makes the whole thing mundane because we realize that “hierarchical top” refers to our wolf-like nature and “that of which all is part” comes as an infinite sizerange.
As I’ve said I agree with the words Soul (true self vs false self; observer of the body in one’s plans vs. the body in one’s plans) and God (defined as “that of which all is part” and synonymous with Reality). But Heaven is a tricker question – what does “heaven” mean? It is obviously no unknown size-range in the infinite sizerange nor a location in space, nor can it be “outside” [that of which all is part]. I acknowledge that believing in heaven gives the same kind of fear-relief as “the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) protects me”, but like I said: I have trouble not being complex and analyzing “the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) protects me” (putting it in it’s sizescalian and evolutionary context), and with “Heaven” I have even more trouble because the single simplest thought ruins that idea. If I were to try to “believe in Heaven” I’d have to focus so hard that my mind doesn’t wander to even the most closely associated or easily retrieved scientific concept (because that destroys heaven). I do believe in doing good out of solidarity, and that doing good will reak its rewards for the millions of coming generations.
So to me Holy Books tend to contain only the following: different emotions to and from the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) , scientific truths like that Reality cannot be seen, heaven & hell and rituals.
Other than material pleasures like humor, I think we can find
condolence
in that being something in nothing with a bleak evolutionary story is more grim than we feel it to be; the truth hurts but not as much as we can feel. We are worse off than we realize and we should be happy we don’t fully feel our meaningless depressing situation which is made sense of in an unintuitive (and thus gives the feeling of confusion) way
(I’m thinking mainly of the three-PILLAR existential theory).
In Holy Books I also tend to find what I’ll relate to you in an anecdote: I was sitting in the back-seat of a car on vacation in a country which I had fallen in love with, whilst winter was raging in my home country. The driver of the car asked if I wanted a hazelnut croissant. I thought what was more important of a topic was for me to whine about that I don’t ever want to leave this country, I want my vacation to last longer, I don’t want to go back to the darkness and snow. So I said “I don’t want to go back to Sweden 🙁 !!” and the driver asked “what does this have to do with the hazelnut croissant?”. I put my answer in a joke: “the connection between the two topics is very deep and significant, but it’s hard to explain: it’s mysterious – and that’s religion.” I tend to find, to say the least, unintuitive associations between concepts in holy books (not meant as jokes).
About Heaven again:
So true justice is impossibly unattainable, which means that this world is inherently unjust?
Yes it's unjust and that seems quite obvious. The other day I heard two people talking: "life can't be this shitty without there being a heaven - there must be a heaven to make life worthwhile", I didn't say anything because their illusion makes them happy but I was thinking: "I am SURE there is no heaven and I can PROVE it scientifically. I even know that the true nature of the situation is worse than we feel it to be (intellectually only can we realize exactly how bleak human life is (and my book is to a large extent so meaninglessness-giving and depressing that one can make jokes out of it)). The only reason to keep living is out of solidarity and because science can create an animal which is 100% happy throughout its lifetime (maybe 100 years from now)."
So heaven was just the divine carrot at the end of the rainbow which acts as a counterweight to the stick that is life?
Do I believe in God, Heaven, The Day of Judgement, etc? As much as I believe that “the top of the hierarchy (defined as “that of which all is part”) protects me” – I use it sometimes. But then if I analyze it, it kindof breaks down: into a donkey with a carrot regarding heaven:
I’m trying to translate all religious concepts (and did well with God and Soul) into scientific language. I can’t do Heaven as a scientific translation except by using this donkey picture – I’m sorry!
The only hope I have of there being a heaven for anyone in the future is that humanity genetically engineers a super-happy animal.
I did well by translating
Soul into scientific language (the body with the plans and the see’er of the body in the plans) and I did well with God (that of which all is part) because it’s one, it can’t be seen,
it’s the cause of everything...
But with Heaven I really can’t do any better than this donkey-picture, and I’m sad about it. I still use the concept Heaven but in the religious way, I don’t use it in the scientific way because it just gets me sad (but it’s funny at the same time).
I “believe in Heaven” in the religious way, but I don’t “believe in Heaven” in the scientific way. Humans are capable of such cognitive dissonance.
Meta-commentary on this book
If the purpose of this book is to unify across religious-differences and build more agreement and thus friendship/trust in the world, then the overall structure of having three parts should remain the same no matter how the course/book is presented:
first
the existential theory because it predicts that there ought to be a tiny DNA-strand somewhere,
then
evolution (because it’s a continuation off of the existential theory/part 1),
then
other thoughts like the circuitry related to religion.
If we focus on ways to teach part 1 of this book (the existential theory), one has three options:
begin from Descartes’ certain truth (I think and I am) and make small logical steps all the way up to anti-distinction (that of which all is part) and how distinction vs. anti-distinction –opposition proves that the sizerange is infinite.
begin from Nothingness (spacetime) which is there “a priori” (needs no prior justification) and is emptier than we can imagine it as. Then state that that spacetime is non-absurd/non-bizarre i.e. that for example the case is not that at one moment 1+1=2, then 1+1=5, then 1+1=241, then 1+1=2 again. 1+1=2 is a law of nature inherent in spacetime, and so is Pythagoras’ theorems about triangles (a triangle is not a sphere because the universe is non-absurd). The laws of nature state
d
so far already hint at Existence (energymass) but E=mc
2
is a law of nature that certainly explicitly requires Energymass. Where is Energymass first summoned? In the smallest spaces, thus we get a dense Big Bang throughout the entire sizerange.
begin with stating the three pillars of the existential theory: (1) an infinite sizerange (2) of energymasspacetime (3) in intertwinedness-separation-opposition.
Including all three ways to begin should convince everyone of that this world-view is valid.
The way I go about teaching this course is universal, and the latest thing I’ve noticed about my course is that the number 3 repeats in many places: there are three ways to start the course (Certain Truth, Nothingness, 3 Pillars of the Existential Theory), the existential theory has 3 pillars, the first evolutionary rules (before power/viruses emerge) are 3.
Extraterrestrials would notice the number 3 popping up all the time too.
The diagram
This is the logotype infinitely many extraterrestrials, basing it off of science, paint on their T-shirts, caps and other merchendize. We’ve already talked about the infinite sizerange and the evolutionary theory (the square and the triangle), but the additional third part aliens would add to the diagram is their diagrams of the brain: the different categories (large or small, 3 of them) of hard-wired circuits:
homeostatic circuits, social/external-circuits and circuitry that gets activated when the two other categories of circuits aren’t active (these are gathering resources, curiosity (expanding one’s world-view), planning how to get power, planning how to get reproduction).
In our planning-system we have serotonine (the red line) and dopamine (the blue line).
The number 3 is a magic number because
there are 3 ways to begin this universal course (nothingness, certain truth or 3 pillars of the existential theory), there are 3 pillars to the existential theory, there are 3 first evolutionary principles and there are 3 categories of evolved brain circuits (social/external, homeostatic and cortex-idle).
3 is the
most
universal digit.
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen, Sweden
War and Boredom
– Religious wars continue because this book isn’t known enough, and it is not known because it is “boring” i.e. causes feelings of meaninglessness, depression etc.
Author
yonis
Posted on
31/12/2016
17/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on War and Boredom
2 Nobel Prizes
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/Untitled-Project2.mp4
Author
yonis
Posted on
12/12/2016
14/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on 2 Nobel Prizes
V 2-4
V2-4
Author
yonis
Posted on
08/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on V 2-4
Existential theory (2)
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/We-are-evolution-2.mp4
Author
yonis
Posted on
07/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Existential theory (2)
Summary in video (10 min)
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/Untitled.mp4
Author
yonis
Posted on
05/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Summary in video (10 min)
Latest version of my book
Warrior of Boredom
The title of this book refers to that it is hard to get through this book. The reason why this new science (that I present in this book) hasn’t been discovered until I did is because it’s depressing, anxiety-giving and BORING. But the question is: does everyone agree on it? If they do, that changes the Israel-Palestine-conflict where the parties of God are vetoing “the holy land”. Religion is the biggest cause for hate in the world, as Hitchens said. My book defeats religion – it’s a minimalist theory that works completely – a theory of Everything: existence (why there is size itself), evolution – even thoughts on the methodology for doing politics.
Philosophy = honor,
but anxiety/depression and boredom. Religion = no honor,
but less anxiety/depression and less boredom.
The big picture, accounting of everything, conflicts with certain positive-thinking brain-tricks and with our bias toward ignoring some negative/depressing aspects of nature.
The first part of this book will be a more detailed discourse about the following paragraph:
Descartes proved that there is distinction (between thinker and thought) - what's the opposite of distinction: "that of which all is part" (Reality). Since we are stuck in Descarte's thinker and thought-realm we can't see Reality, nor can "whatever" not represent it, meaning that there's more to it than can be contemplated/represented. Since all objects we know of fit in a size-time-diagram, this argument must mean that there is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram - and this in turn leads us to an existential theory (a theory about why there is size in the first place).
I realize that’s too fast of a paragraph to convince everyone and thus I want to convince the readers of this book to be warrios or boredom and see all my arguments.
Lecture 1
Descartes
One of the aims of this course is to get EVERYONE to agree so that they have the same associations between scientific concepts.
There is no other proper way to accomplish this goal than by starting with certain truth, which was found by Descartes in the 1600s. He lived in a time where they believed in demons, Gods etc. so he postulated a thought experiment where he assumed an almighty demon was fooling him in everything he could be fooled in: what would remain as certain truth – what could he not be fooled in?
If he was being fooled, where would still be a “he” (or self) there to be fooled, meaning that the self certainly exists. A self is necessary for a self to be fooled.
Descartes had thus concluded his own existence.
Being fooled is thinking – thus thought exists. “There is thought” Descartes concluded as certain truth. The word “fooling” represents a thought-process.
Descartes found the starting-position for any inquiry about truth: we can know certainly that thinker and thought exists.
Distinction exists (a logical conclusion from the above)
Looking at what we´ve found as certain truth so far “from above” (meta), we can take the next logical step – adding a third factoid to our 2-statement (A and B above) starting position: that there is distinction (
between
thinker and thought). The fact that thinker and thought are two separate entities concluded to be certain truth
s
through two
different
logical pathway
s
lets us conclude that “distinction exists”
. There are what Chinese philosophy calls “the ten thousand things” (referring to the world) – there are at least two (three if we include “distinction” as th
e third thing) certain entities, and empirically we know there are “ten thousand things” (not taking the number 10 000 literally but just referring to multiplicity).
First universal diagram
We can draw the thinker and thought and distinction between them as two dots with a line between them on a piece of paper (fig. 1).
Now we have something all religions agree on
– we´ve drawn up ideas and associations between them. Everyone ought to have the same associations (explanatory thoughts) between the concepts we´ve looked at so far.
We have, if you will – in figure 1 – a universal diagram.
Reality
We have the capability to conglomerate many separate entities under the rubric of a single category. If we use this capability to collect the “ten thousand things” (distinct entities) we´ve found so far into a single thing, we ought to give that thing a word/name. Its definition can be “that of which all is part” and “the opposite of separation/distinction”. I will use the word Reality to refer to this all-encompassing thing.
In lecture 2 I will present three proofs for that “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, but for now we can draw (adding to figure 1) a dot with a cross over it – the cross to symbolize that the dot itself is a false representation of Reality because we (the observer/self/thinker) should be part of that dot. See fig 2.
Thinking about what we´ve got so far
Thinking about what we´ve got so far (fig. 2) it’s a bundle of associations which make universal inter-religious (all religions agree on it) knowledge with both words and pictures.
In the next lecture I present why the line in fig 2 (see fig 3) represents the opposition/antagonism/disagreement/contraposition/divergence/variance between the two sides of the paper; between “thinker and thought” on one side of the paper and “Reality (that of which all is part; the opposite of separation)” on the other side of the paper.
Worth noting now is that the left side of the paper represents separation/distinction whilst the right side of the paper represents the opposite of separation/distinction – both are legitimate ideas: thinker and thought – and distinction – is certain truth based on Descartes and we all know which idea we refer to when talking about the all-encompassing [that of which all is part] Reality.
In the next lecture we will talk about why the line in fig. 3 makes it so that we can´t see Reality – I will present three proofs like in a crime case, and we will talk about what we can see if we can´t see Reality.
Making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far
1
See fig. 1 again: it´s our starting-point and the thinking that occurs in it happens in Descartes “realm of mind”; it is the mind´s realm (the left side of the paper) in which the thinking happens, and one thing we talk about is Reality on the right side of the paper in fig 3. Since the line in fig. 3 represents both the legitimacy of the ideas on both sides of the paper, and simultaneously the opposition between separation/distinction (on the left side of the paper) and [the opposite of separation/distinction] on the right side of the paper. That opposition is important and I will show its significance in lecture 2.
2
Starting from Descartes realm (of if you will: assuming that all we know is what we know for certain), we have the capability to state that there is a single Reality of which all is part – so even though we see separation we must grant that that separation (all entities) fits into a category we call Reality. There is a unifying whole even though the human mind (Descartes realm) is limited in its ways when it tries to contemplate Reality.
Not only is there the map-territory distinction (which will be presented as one out of three proofs in lecture 2), but there is also a more fundamental opposition between distinction and its opposite (there is a more fundamental opposition between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3). Not only are we stuck in the map-territory-distinction-realm but we also can conclude that no representation (regardless of the mind) is equal to Reality (on a more fundamental level than the map-territory-problem).
Representation is done in the brain using neurons and in a computer using electrons, but there is no reason why the most distant atom or quark couldn´t be proposed to be a symbol for [that of which all is part] – and even in that brainless scenario we will see in lecture 2 that “that of which all is part cannot be represented”. The map-territory-distinction is just proof/evidence number two in lecture 2 (for that we cannot see Reality and thus, since we do see/represent something, there must be more to Reality than can be represented i.e. the size-time-diagram (presented in lecture
2) is infinite along both axes.
Proof 3 in lecture 2 removes the brain from the equation and still proves that there is more to Reality than can be seen/represented/symbolized (using any means/any method – even without a brain), and since some representation is obviously (since we know that there are minds) possible, there must be more than can be represented/contemplated i.e. the size-axis is infinite and the time-axis is infinite in that two-axis diagram.
3
Both sides of the paper in fig. 3 are legitimate ideas. But still they are opposites (separation on one side and the opposite of separation on the other side). How can two derived-from-logic sides of the paper be opposites but still both be legitimate?
Usually opposition – like between Democrats and Republicans – means that one is right and the other is wrong; they can´t both simultaneously be right: you can´t meaningfully vote for both parties at the same time.
The case is different between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3: both sides are right and they are opposites.
There is a single Reality and there is multiplicity in distinction.
What does this mean? That there is more to the size-time-diagram than anything could represent – any representation fails (you can think of some
examples/suggestions for how to represent [that of which all is part]/[the opposite of separation]) – and thus the axes on the size-time-diagram are infinite. This is a hither to unpresented fact in science – it is new science: some of the best scientists ignorantly believe that the size-range is limited/finite.
4
We have quite a few associations and symbols in fig. 3 which must be agreed upon, and here I´m using the word “must” in the sense that “by the rules of logic X must be true”. Other civilizations throughout the infinitely many galaxies there are use the exact same ideas (but in a different language) and have the same associations between them (that there are infinitely many galaxies is derived from that the size-axis in the size-time-diagram is infinite). There is distinction as the third truth to be added to Descartes two fundamental truths (thinker and thought exist), and all that is opposed to (on the other side of the paper in fig. 3) to the all-encompassing Reality which is defined using at least two definitions: that of which all is part and the opposite of separation.
I´m tri-lingual but I write the same ideas and associate them in the same ways no matter which language I write in – its universal science beginning from certain truth. On other planets that have civilizations my writings in this book ought to match up quite near to the writings creating the same lecture series based on universal science that I´m creating
– “alien”/exo-planet
lecture series proceed, beginning from certain fact, through logical steps as I do.
5
[Thinker and thought] (certain truth) and thus distinction/separation are associated through negation/opposition to the right side of the paper in figure 3: Reality. The left side is not the right side just like separation is not its opposites. Both being legitimate ideas, though, connects them in the way that thinker and thought (and all other distinct entities) are in the category Reality.
Even though Reality and distinction are opposites, distinction dwells in (as a sub-entity within the category) Reality.
The associations between the left and right sides of the paper in figure 3 are both united through the notion “opposition” and through the notion that distinction is inherent in Reality (Reality being the opposite of distinction
because we have all-encompassing and its opposite: composite parts).
6
It is certainly true that all is part of a single Reality; but it is equally true that in every observation there is an observer and hence distinction (between thinker and thought). We see separate entities is as true as that the self that we are is not in front of us – but everything we see (thought/object) is in front of us.
That is evidence 1 in lecture 2 (not a proof, but a mere suggestion/evidence that [that of which all is part cannot be observed] and thus there is more to Reality than our concept of [infinitely much].
All we know about Reality has two properties: a size and a time. Size and time are two axes on a diagram, and thus all we know fits into the size-time-diagram (every object or location in space has a size and time).
There is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram because all suggested representors for Reality fail
(for three reasons taken up in lecture 2).
7
All
bundles of associations in this chapter “making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far”
are written in order to create some universal brain structures (universal because
science is the same everywhere (on all exo-planets), and their brains make the same associations too eventually). It´s not some random bundle of associations nor did I randomly present random ideas.
I assume the brain structure created by understanding this book is a replica of something derived from science; a replica of brain structures on the infinitely many other civilization-bearing planets. It´s a universal “ideology”, if you will.
Everyone has a possibility of sharing it in agreement – and future lectures will add a whole lot of complexity to it; agreement tends to build friendship so study is a way of bringing more peace to the world.
Once the full world-view is presented throughout this book, it´s a way of pacifying the world.
8
We have two brain-halves: one linguistic and one visual. So far we´ve both drawn pictorial representations and connected words – both brain-halves have been working. The connections across corpus collosum (which sits between the brain-halves and connects them) that connect a linguistic narrative/explanation to the pictorial representations are one day found in all humans thanks to science. Our brains are becoming more as science has a propensity to make them be.
This course itself, since it begins with certain truths and builds upon it logically, is a universal course (to the best of my ability).
The brain cells that constitute the negation (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 3) or opposition are not the same kind of cells (they are inhibitory neurons) that connect thinker with though as both being certain truths (but the thinker is not the thought and thus has inhibitory cells making that brain-structure work too
(what you are is not in front of you;
what you are is not visible).
Since both Reality and [what you are]/self/observer/thinker are invisible the brain might erroneously and spontaneously try to associate them, so a brain-structure is needed to inhibit that association (and replace it with a more complex explanation). That spontaneous but erroneous association is something all thinking animals throughout the universe evolved to do, and the inhibition of it through culture/civilizing/science is universally available within complex enough civilizations throughout the universe.
As you can see the brain structures responsible for doing this thing are quite complex, but also universal and thus accessible to all humans, and predictably will someday be in all humans (fostering agreement, thus friendship, thus peace).
Lecture 2
Perceive, apprehend, notice are synonyms for our representing ability, but I will use the word “see” or “observe” to refer to all of these. The goal of this lecture is to prove the statement “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, Reality being defined as “that of which all is part”. In other words: we cannot see Reality, and thus there is more to Reality than even can be contemplated (i.e. infinitely much).
I will build this lecture like a criminal court case: I will present three proofs for that we cannot see Reality i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated i.e. (since we can contemplate anything (right or wrong)) Reality is infinite.
Since anything/everything we know about Reality has some size and time, it fits into a size-time-diagram. See fig. 4.
In fig. 4 size is represented along the vertical axis and time along the horizontal axis. The objects humans see in everyday life (from the horizon to a single cell as one “pixel” in our visual field) are marked in “the human range”.
See fig 5.
In fig. 5 I´ve drawn the same diagram as in fig. 4 but this time with infinity-symbols in each corner of the squareical size-time-diagram. Two infinite axes become a square.
Proof number 3 in our “court case” for proving that the size-time-diagram (Reality) is infinite has us imagine the unobservable separatenessless Reality and ask whether there is a maximum or minimum size to/in it (a maximum/minimum being separateness while we are talking about the opposite of separation). This is again to confirm that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes.
The line we drew in fig. 4 was for separating the two sides of the paper; opposing “thinker and thought” (distinction) with its opposite: one all-encompassing non-distinction Reality. That opposition-line is what this lecture is about since it proves that the two sides of the paper are
separate/opposing realms and we are stuck in one realm as long as we are observers (because observation is separation/distinction (thinker and thought)).
Proving that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes is new science because it poses the question: what happened before the Big Bang (14 billion years ago), and it presents one pillar of our existential theory: that each size is the reason for each next and previous size, and the size axis is infinite, meaning the “beginning” of the relationship between sizes keeps retreating into infinity the more we contemplate the range of the size axis.
When I presented fig. 4 for the first time I drew a cross over the dot symbolizing Reality for the plain reason that we (as observers) should be part of that dot, and by the very nature of us being separate (and the dot representing the opposite of separation) we should draw a cross over it symbolizing that we cannot see it.
The main proof though is that even if all observers were dead there´d still be, inherent and fundamental in nature, the opposition between distinction and distinction´s opposite (the two sides of the paper in fig. 4). The line is an opposition-line and it is more fundamental than being dependent on humans/observers – it refers to all representation whether it’s using/including humans or not. I am, in other words, not talking about the map-territory distinction (which symbolizes that humans have mental maps and not the real world per se; like Kant said: we have “the thing” and not “the thing itself”). Proof 2 – the opposition-line between the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 – is not subjective: it is true that we live with the map-territory-distinction but even if I died there´d still be separate things (chairs separate from cups), that kind of separation is not dependent on me/observers. Simultaneously the flipside of the coin (the other side of the paper in fig. 4) is true too: all is one single Reality (the opposite of separation). Proof 2, in other words, should not be interpreted as signifying the map-territory distinction (human subjectivity) but instead a fundamental opposition in the universe.
If we do not see Reality, then what do we see? Everything we see fits into the size-time-diagram, and since the opposition-line in fig. 4 shows that there is a fundamental rule that states, in 3 different proofs, that Reality is infinite / there is more than can even be contemplated / there is more than even non-subjective representation can represent.
Proof number 1 is really weaker than a “proof” – it´s more like evidence. It wouldn´t hold up in a court but it is a way of stating what the other proofs too point towards. Proof 1 is what we saw when presenting figure 4: any dot representing Reality is an incorrect representation because the observer should be part of the object – the thinker should be part of the thought. It denies Cartesian separation and thus is untrue, meaning that anything we draw on the right side of the paper in fig. 4 is incorrect.
We can contemplate anything: we can speculate about what´s smaller than quantum physics, or even what´s smaller than that, etc. into infinity. We are probably wrong, but any contemplation/representation counts as a contemplation – and since we know that, whether right or wrong as our contemplations may be, there is more to Reality than can be contemplated, it follows that there must be infinitely much to Reality. Since all we know about Reality fits into a size-time-diagram, the minimalist approach is to state that it´s the size-time-diagram that is infinite.
This warrants two new words: the knowable/known size-range and the infinite size-range. The knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range. Since Einstein unified space (size) and time, one cannot be infinite without the other one being the same. Science today doesn´t know whether there was a “before” to the Big Bang or not (whether time was created at the Big Bang), but now we know that the Big Bang is just an event on an infinite time axis. In a future lecture we will talk about how/why the Big Bang recreates (happens over and over).
We talked about universal diagrams (and universal brain-structures) in lecture 1. The size-time-diagram is one major universal diagram. A lot of detail can be added to it because all fields of science fit into it. The infinity-symbols on each axis of the squareical diagram are drawn, based on science, on exo-planets with advanced enough civilizations.
This lecture is about proving that [that of which all is part] (the opposite of separation) i.e. Reality cannot be observed/represented, and that this fact is true irrespective of whether we are observers or dead, and applying this to the size-time-diagram (which gets its infinity-symbols into the squareical diagram).
Proof number 2 (the main proof) is the oppositional approach between Reality and distinction, and it is not subjective because Reality and Reality´s opposite exist even if we were dead. Proof number 3 is about imagining (even though no imagination is it) Reality as a big gray (because energymass is white and spacetime is black) solid, in which we know no observer should be (because observation is separation) – does it have separation i.e. a biggest and a smallest size? No, because such distinctions are not in the opposite of distinction (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 4).
I´ve mentioned universal associations in the brain / exo-planet science, so talking about the size-time-diagram we can add more universal notions to it: why did I draw upwards on the size axis as larger and downward as smaller? Why is the time-axis horizontally drawn instead of vertically? The diagram works even if we would define the vertical axis as time and the horizontal axis as size – so why do we draw size vertically and time horizontally? Is it universal i.e. on other planets or just a human convention like writing from left to right in English-speaking countries and right to left in Arabic-speaking countries?
Evolution has it so that during the history of science telescopes look upward and microscopes look downward. This would be the case on other planets too: they turn their heads upward to see the large and downward (onto a table) to see the small; the opposite can´t be true on any planet. Thus we get the size axis´ standard (of upward being larger) from evolution / the history of science. I use the word “standard” because it comes from evolution rather than being more fundamentally hard-wired into the universe such as the fact that the size-time-diagram is a square with infinity symbols. That the size-time-diagram is a square is not a standard – it is something stronger than that. The fact that we represent time on the vertical axis (and upward as larger) comes from a weaker source: tradition (even though that same tradition is true on all planets; evolution, in this regard, happens the same on all planets that end up with civilizations).
We thus have added standards or weak conventions (derived from history) in addition to having strong diagrams like the size-time-diagram being a square. The distinction between the two is made based on science and is thus made on exo-planets.
Scientists are looking for exo-planets that bear civilizations. If the size-range is infinite – as we´ve proven that it is – then each particular size (like the human range in fig. 5) is infinite too; if the largest is infinitely large then there is, considering the size of a human, an infinite distance in any direction that that human could find itself in. This makes civilizations on other planets a must, not an assumption. The known/knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range, and within the known size-range there is a range in which evolution occurs (between the smallest cells and the biggest organisms), and since we´ve proven that there are infinitely many objects within/of that size-range, then there must be infinitely many locations in which evolution occurs.
In the next lecture we will bind together the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 (distinction and distinction´s opposite; “thinker and thought” opposing Reality) with E=mc
2
(energymasspacetime) and with the infinity of the size-time axes, into a single existential theory which is a rival to “God created earth in 6 days…” The existential theory is a minimalist account for why there is a sizescale in the first place, and why there is something (energymass) rather than nothing (spacetime). It reminds me of this passage: “HITCHENS: In other words, as the great physicist Laplace said when he demonstrated his working model (his orrery, as it’s called) of the solar system to the emperor and Napoleon said, “Well I see there’s no God in this system,” and Laplace said, “Well, Your Majesty, it works without that assumption.””
In this chapter I´ve presented three proofs for that the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in it i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated; we do represent something but however we choose to represent (even representations that can be proposed as thought-experiments if we were dead) we do not represent Reality i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality. Are there any counter-arguments saying that the size-time-diagram is finite? I built this lecture like a court case and I´d like to hear the opposing side. There are no arguments that oppose what I´ve proven so far.
Lecture 3
E=mc
2
E=mc
2
as an equation is only used in relativistic scenarios such as very high speed or very high energy, but since speed is a continuum the equation is true at slower speeds. There is a difference between the equation being applicable (being needed while solving equations) and it being true; it is always true everywhere but it is not needed for equations except in special scenarios.
An example of the equation being true everywhere and always is this: nuclear power-plants turn mass (kilograms) into energy (joule), so that if you input 1 kg of uranium-mass you get out 99.9999 kg of waste products – some of the mass turned into energy which lights our light-bulbs. The atoms that lost some weight (that weight was converted into energy) are atoms just like other kinds of atoms, for example in autumn leaves. If you´d drop leaves into the core of the sun, the sun´s nuclear furnace would turn mass in the leaves into energy (light). Hence all objects are subject to the E=mc
2
-rule, which states that energy (E) equals mass (m). This warrants the word energymass because they are no longer two distinct things – they are but different manifestations of the same thing. In the brain
energymass should be a single idea whilst the concepts “energy and mass” refers to two different forms of a single idea.
Verbs and adjectives tend to refer to energy (shining, running, etc.) while nouns refer to mass (body, tree, etc.) E=mc
2
states that the two (verbs/adjectives and nouns) are together in a single equation. Although only applicable in relativistic scenarios (the role of relativism becomes close to zero in everyday human events, except that our light-bulbs shine because mass turns into energy and the sun can makes leaves into light), E=mc
2
is in a “philosophical” sense true everywhere and always just like Pythagoras’s theorem about triangles remains “philosophically true” even where there are no physical triangles. You wouldn´t say 1=1 is not true in empty space just because there are no objects there to count as “1”.
In addition to energymass being a single concept (and not two distinct ones), spacetime gets added into the mix by the c
2
-part of the equation. c is the speed of light (km/h) and thus a distance (space) over time – spacetime! Energymass (E=m) and spacetime (c
2
) should in the brain be represented by a single idea which we can call energymasspacetime. This harkens back to the previous lectures about Reality, which is a synonym for energymasspacetime. Einstein invented the equation E=mc
2
and thus unified in it energymass with spacetime – and synonyms for energymass are “existence” or “1” while synonyms for spacetime are “non-existence”, “emptiness”, “nothing” and “zero”. There is no more to be considered regarding Reality than energymasspacetime; energymasspacetime involves everything (energymass) and nothing (spacetime) so there is nothing more to be considered/added to Reality – Reality is energymasspacetime; everything is included into Reality once we have defined Reality as energymasspacetime.
The Existential Theory
Each culture seems to have a creation myth (such as genesis) – the creation of the cosmos/world/Reality is something humans have invented hypotheses for during millennia. The stories answer the question “why are we here?”
The true answer is unintuitive. First of all: why is there any particular size? What justifies, say, the size of a molecule? The answer is: the smaller and the larger (the rest of the size-range). Atoms justify a molecule and a molecule exhibits a place for atoms to live in: justifies atoms. Humans need an earth to dwell on (the earth is larger) and humans are made of cells (cells are smaller). Each size bears a relationship upon each other size – the smaller justify the larger and the larger justify the smaller. Since the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all four corners of the square (because of the proof where we had two sides of a paper), the size-range is infinite i.e. the pattern of justification between/amongst sizes continues into the infinitely large and infinitely small. What the ancients called “the first cause” keeps retreating into infinity size-wise the more we contemplate it. The size-range is like a fractal: you can keep zooming in or out infinitely much, and the question “why is there this particular object that I see” has its answer in the relationship between all the sizes: justification. Infinite justification is the reason why there is a size-range at all. But there is more that is needed for a full-fledged existential theory: two more factors play their roles.
Spacetime is emptier than we can imagine/represent it. We (and all representeurs) are energymass and thus are the opposite of spacetime. We could let a piece of empty space represent spacetime, but as soon as we use energymass (such as our brains) to do so, we´ve lost the truly empty nature of
spacetime: it is unimaginably empty. Any bundle of neurons, no matter how we wire it, is still the opposite of what they want to represent when they want to present us with spacetime. It is therefore useful to have two concepts for spacetime: (1) our simplest intuition of spacetime and (2) additional defining language explaining that spacetime is emptier than (1). This is how exoplanet civilizations would wire their brains regarding the concept “spacetime” too, just because it’s the most accurate science they can manage.
Just like energy and mass are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon, energymass and spacetime are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon. What does it mean for spacetime to be bundled together with (intertwined with) energymass? Everything exists as/in/because of nothing; 1 exists in 0; energymass and spacetime are together in the E=mc
2
-equation. Where could energymass/existence exist? In nothingness. Just like sizes justify one another, spacetime justifies energymass.
The last question that remains, after we have justification between sizes in an infinite size-range, and that all points in the size-time-diagram are made of energymasspacetime (and energymass is justified by it being in spacetime), is the objective fact that there both is a single Reality (the right side of the paper) and there´s its opposite: distinction (between, say, thinker and thought).
The existential theory builds on three “pillars”/fundamental ideas:
An infinite sizescale,
Energymasspacetime as in the equation E=mc
2
Distinction between distinction itself and distinction´s opposite (see fig. 1, 2, 3):
Between distinction (the left side of the paper, our 2 certain truths: I exist and there is thought) and Reality (the opposite of distinction; one Reality (not plural)) there is a line that demarcates distinction/opposition.
Putting it all into one phrase we might say: “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime with opposition between distinction and Oneness”. At its core it´s three ideas (infinite size-time-diagram, energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
), separation and intertwinedness (the two sides of the paper)). On exoplanets they would state their reason for their own existence using these three ideas too, because taken together they explain all that needs to be explained: first thing that comes to mind is that in the stated existential theory there must be a reproducing shape (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape; a DNA-strand) somewhere. If the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all three corners, then evolution ought to occur somewhere (and be made of energymass in spacetime, while being separate/distinct in a single intertwined Reality).
Most creation-myths have a quite simple (one-pillared) and mundane story: for example genesis just states that God created Reality (that of which all is part) in 6 days and rested on the 7
th
. The scientific rival to all such creation stories is a three-pillared theory – we can´t make it any simpler (we can´t make it one-pillared) and the same would be the case on exoplanets: they too can only break it down to three interconnected ideas/pillars/fundaments, so in thinking this way we share a common intellectual history with exoplanet civilizations advanced enough to figure out this existential theory.
On a test on this subject a question might be: “what are the three pillars of the existential theory?” – the question can´t be “what is the most important pillar in the existential theory?” All pillars are equally important but constitute as distinct ideas as E=mc
2
is from infinite size, or the separation-intertwinedness-opposition (fig. 3).
This three-pillared creation story – the sum of these three chapters – is built upon logic: it includes certain truths like “I think and I exist” (distinction/separation), its opposite (Reality for which we have three proofs for that it can´t be observed/seen/contemplated i.e. the size-time-diagram is infinite), E=mc
2
which unifies nothing/spacetime with existence/energymass, and the relationship between any two sizes (justification along the infinite size-range). Every one of these ideas relates very closely to Descartes´ certain truth, meaning we can be sure of the ideas themselves – and they together build up a minimalist existential theory which needs no further logic to explain everything there is.
Having an infinite size-range has a predictive quality to it too – it makes a prediction: there ought to be evolution (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar mass) somewhere in the diversity we see throughout even the known size-range.
Though as non-intuitive as the 3-pillar existential theory may be to our evolved brains who want a single conclusion, exoplanet civilizations have the same limits and biases as us: they too are stuck with three pillars in a single theory to make the theory explainable. Science is creating universal (exoplanet) neural pathways in our brains. We should embrace the fact that by being non-intuitive but true, this science wires our brain based on science and thus universally. It is the way (the wiring) that all planets are headed to if they´re into science. It´s a universal world-view. We´re thinking like aliens.
In current scientific debates the religious will argue that faith (in a dogma) is needed to (what they call) “understand” the existence of the universe. If confronted with my theory (these lectures) they´d have to agree that logic makes their God unnecessary as a pillar of creation. In the best case scenario God is simply a synonym for Reality (because Reality is “that of which all is part” and thus God ought to be part of it too, and all we know about Reality is that it is energymass in spacetime and separation in intertwinedness).
Having an explanation – the negative side of it is it being three-pillared and unintuitive, the positive side of it being that it accounts for all of Reality and predicts evolution – further justifies the saying “a God of the gaps” (meaning the more we understand the less we need God). Now all that remains to be understood – again in an unintuitive but identical to exoplanets -way – is how, on an infinite time-line, the Big Bang (denseness) recreates and fades away into sparseness (black holes removing energymass and dark energy creating more space until no galaxies are anymore visible).
Lecture 4
The beginning of the Big Bang
I have a hard time imagining how the universe can reach complete emptiness, but it wouldn´t be the first time the universe´s nature surpasses human intuition. In the history of science stars were observed to not move relative to one another on the night sky, and this was argued to prove that the size of the universe was much smaller than the now known size – it was argued that the universe would be “unreasonably big” if the stars didn´t seem to move relative to one another as the earth moved because they were so far away.
If only enough time is needed for the universe to become empty, then we get the starting scenario which is most reasonable: we start with emptiness (spacetime). Again, spacetime is emptier than our concept for it because we (and our concepts) are made of energymass.
If you move your hand one meter (from position 1 to position 2), the laws of nature that make your hand make sense were already in place in the space of position 2 before you moved your hand there. It´s not like the universe/spacetime was absurd in location 2 and only started to make sense regarding hands when you moved your hand there. We do not impact the laws of nature in such ways; instead the laws of nature are simultaneously and equally true at all locations and all times. In other words: Pythagoras’s theorem is true even in locations where there are no objects whatsoever, but the theorem is only applicable (to be applied) to triangles. In empty space there are no objects and thus no triangles, but Pythagoras´s theorem is true there anyhow – it does not suddenly become true (switch from being untrue to true) when a triangle is imagined or physically moved there. This applies to E=mc
2
too, which is just as much of a law of nature as Pythagoras´s theorem. E=mc
2
is true everywhere and always, though humans only apply (use) the equation in certain scenarios. Where triangles can be (in spacetime) there is also E=mc
2
. Laws of nature are fundamental and inherent in spacetime and do not come about depending on events (though our application/use of any particular equation is dependent on which event we´re analyzing).
There is distinction between the practical use of equations (to solve problems or understand a phenomenon) and the core nature of spacetime having laws of nature in it. Spacetime is a no-nonsense spacetime – we live in a rational (laws of nature-abiding) universe.
One law being E=mc
2
and another one being “if it is said it must exist” (meaning energymass can´t be mentioned in the laws of nature of spacetime without energymass existing), we get spacetime to summon energymass if the starting-point was complete emptiness. “If energymass is mentioned it must be summoned” (it is mentioned in E=mc
2
) is true because it would be a nonsense universe if it “talks” about energymass without there being any – just infinite space for eternity with laws of nature regarding energymass, but never any energymass appearing/being present. It would be a nonsense universe if energymass it mentioned but never exists. It would be akin to the universe telling lies (having all these rules like E=mc
2
but never applying them to anything), or the universe babbling gibberish (having inapplicable laws of nature).
Thus, E=mc
2
being a core property of spacetime itself and the “no gibberish”-rule applying, energymass must logically be summoned – but how and where? Extremely dense i.e. everywhere, in the smallest spaces, simultaneously. Why? Our starting-point is spacetime, which needs no prior justification because it is the opposite of existence: it doesn´t exist – it is emptier than our neurons make it out to be. In it Einstein´s theory of relativity is true, meaning that there is no center point (or in other words: all points are the center) so there is no center to the Big Bang. Another way of seeing it is that as soon as there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification), E=mc
2
became true in all locations (in the smallest spaces) simultaneously – no point in space was before another in having E=mc
2
be true in it. Spacetime having E=mc
2
as a core property has E=mc
2
be true everywhere simultaneously; once we have the launching-condition of empty spacetime, through E=mc
2
, energymass is summoned everywhere simultaneously.
This “everywhere” is all things within an event horizon, meaning that things moving away faster than the speed of light (due to dark energy/accelerating cosmic expansion) are not within our event
horizon: they are not part of what can be reasonably called “our 3-dimensional space” (from our location). Things are not part of our universe once their speed hits faster than the speed of light – and many locations, within the boundaries of their respective event horizons, will one day have all energymass moving away from them at speeds faster than the speed of light (this is just the observed fact of accelerating cosmic expansion). Such a finite space with no energymass within its event horizon (all energymass moving away faster than the speed of light) would constitute “completely empty space” i.e. our starting-point for the Big Bang (energymass being summoned due to E=mc
2
).
Consider an infinite size-range - it is made of energymasspacetime: if we draw it as the Y-axis on a diagram, there can´t be a region/length in it (such as the knowable size-range) which is completely empty forever. See fig. 6.
Because of the rules E=mc
2
and “if it is mentioned it must be summoned”/”no-nonsense universe” are true throughout the infinite size-range, there can´t be a region with just spacetime (with its laws of nature) because the laws of spacetime mention energymass; spacetime is inherently tied to and intertwined with energymass – existence and non-existence go together (at all sizes). There would be no logical breaking-point (a particular size) where energymasspacetime transitions into being just spacetime for a range of sizes and then transitions back into energymasspacetime; there is no logical breaking-point where the implications of E=mc
2
(the implication being: energymass and spacetime are in the same equation) stop to be true. The transition seen in fig. 6 is impossible (there is no “empty region”). Having an empty region would be akin to zooming into the decimals of pi and seeing no numbers for a specific array of decimals: 3.14159ÄÄÄÄ265359... The Ä´s can´t be there: it´s a continuous sequence of decimal numbers. There is no break/”empty region” in the continuous decimals of pi just as there is no region of the size-range that can be empty of energymass.
In this chapter I´ve written something akin to “
first
there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification unless you consider that the size-axis of the size-time-diagram is infinite),
then
there was E=mc
2
,
then
there was energymass summoned into the smallest spaces available (available = considered to be within an event horizon and empty)”. This harkens back to previous lectures´ talk about “alien logic” (how exoplanets think). To have it make sense to our brains we use the time-
distinctions “first, then and then” but the real distinction is not in time but in steps in a sequence of logic. In other words all the mentioned steps happened simultaneously to start the Big Bang: E=mc
2
was true as soon as there was spacetime, and as soon as there was that, energymass appeared as not to make the universe absurd (by it talking gibberish or it having an empty region like in fig. 6).
The end of the Big Bang
Telescopes observe that “space is being born” i.e. that the distances between clumps of energymass (galaxies) are getting larger, and at an accelerating pace too. Not only does the Hubble law state that an object a
million light
-
years
away would be receding from us at 21 km/sec and at double the distance twice the speed, but the law states that that speed (for example 21 km/sec a million light years away) is increasing. This is called accelerating cosmic expansion. It means that from our galaxy, when/if we look into the sky trillions of years in the future, we´d see no trace of any other galaxy let alone the cosmic microwave background (because their speeds have passed the speed of light and thus went beyond the event horizon). Once that object a million light years away from us which today is racing away at 21 km/sec reaches 299792 km/sec (the speed of light), it will pass from being within our event horizon to being outside our sphere of events.
This empties our universe or as Hitchens put it: “nothingness is coming”. Once that nothingness comes we have our starting point where we run through the logic of E=mc
2
–> “if it is mentioned it must exist/be summoned” (in order for the universe not to talk gibberish or the infinite size-range not to have a break in it) –> energymass begins as dense (because of relativity and because E=mc
2
is true everywhere simultaneously/equally).
We observe that nothingness (within event horizons) is coming, and beginning from nothingness there is unintuitive logic that has a predictive quality to it: the Big Bang should start dense. This theory works well with lecture 2´s proofs for that “there is more to Reality than can be represented” (the size-time-diagram is infinite) because size is essentially space, and space and time are intertwined into a single spacetime – hence: if size/space is infinite then time must be infinite too. In other words we have reoccurring Big Bangs interspersed along the time-axis of our size-time-diagram. As soon as a region bound by an event horizon becomes empty we have the universe´s no-nonsense-laws kicking in and E=mc
2
summons energymass (in the smallest sizes that are empty equally/simultaneously).
The sequence of consecutive Big Bangs´ beginnings (emptiness leading to energymass being summoned) and ends (accelerating cosmic expansion speeding things past a point´s event horizon and emptiness being summoned) are as infinite as the time-axis proved to be based on lecture 2´s proofs. Proving (in lecture 2) that spacetime is infinite fits perfectly with the reoccurring Big Bangs (when somethingness becomes emptiness and then emptiness summons somethingness).
There will in other words, between the beginning of a Big Bang and the end of that same Big Bang, be life within the conscious/human size-range (the different locations of that size already being infinitely many, see fig. 4).
Each size along the size-axis is defined as “3-dimensional infinite space” meaning there is infinitely much life with access to universal science (i.e. some version of this lecture-series), and within our region (bound by an event horizon) there is life between the beginning and end of Big Bangs. In addition I have hard to believe that a reproducing shape (and thus evolution) only occurs in only
one
size-range (the, for humans, knowable size-range) in an infinite size-range: there ought to be many sub-size-ranges as part of the infinite size-range where evolution occurs and can reach scientific knowledge. All life mentioned above, if they reach scientific understanding, would concur on the existential theory presented in these lectures (especially lecture 3 – the three pillars/foundations/ideas which together become a minimalist theory for why there is the infinite size-range of energymasspacetime in the first place).
This is not only exoplanet science – it is science between Big Bangs and it is science in regions of the size-axis far away (in size) from our knowable size-range. See fig. 7.
Summary
First we looked at Descartes’ ”thought exists” and ”the self exists”, claimed that it was two valid statements and pointed out the distinction between them. On the other side of the paper we wanted to represent anti-distinction (the opposite of distinction) defined as “that of which all is part” (Reality), and realized that since thinker/thought is stuck on the left side of the paper we can’t represent Reality. This is not only Kant’s “the thing is not the thing itself (the mental map is not the real territory)” but more importantly whatever cannot be taken to represent “that of which all is part” i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality.
All we know about Reality (atoms, humans, galaxies) fit into a size-time-diagram (every object has a size and a time), so the minimalist approach combining the above paragraph with this one is to use the first paragraph to prove that the size-time diagram has infinite
axes. This in turn leads to an existential theory which can be summed up as “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime” – and it has a predictive quality to it: somewhere in such an existence there would be a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape and thus we get reproduction/evolution.
So far we’ve looked at the theory of why size itself exists, why there is something rather than nothing – an existential theory beginning from certain truth and logically building its way up all the way to predicting evolution.
Part 2: Evolution
My explanation of evolution focuses on how important disease and bullying (power) was for evolution.
Power
means that
fish
were
fighting fish breeding more agressive fish = dinosaurs, then wolfpacks with an alpha male.
But even before and after those eras in evolution the rule of power was in play.
In part one we had an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime (including the intertwinedness-separation-opposition and the time-axis with repeating Big Bangs perpendicular to the size-axis) that predicts a reproducing shape i.e. a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape: reproduction in an infinite size-range.
This infinite size-range predicts reproduction.
Part one was about why there is a sizescale of energymasspacetime: the answers are that the sizescale is infinite and that energymass is in spacetime. It predicts that there should be a reproducing shape: say that it is a triangle which gathers surrounding lines into a similar triangle – then it has reproduced itself. The products of this reproduction obey three rules: directly when there was reproduction three rules came into play, I´ve listed them below as 1, 2, 3 but they are not in order (they came simultaneously):
1:
There is life and death: those who survive survive and those who die are not in the game anymore. “The surviving survive”. It´s so simple – we see it in everyday life today. But everything in evolution will come back to these three rules so we might as well do the banal and bring them up.
So directly when there was a reproducing shape - so in our part of the size-range a DNA-strand which split in the middle and became two DNA-strands – the copy either survived or died.
2: The second rule is that the number of offspring has significance. That is to say: if you get one child or five children or ten children, there is a difference between those numbers – and in evolution it´s a benefit to have more children. One can also have zero children, and that is approximately like being dead.
Some would say that evolution´s meaning (the main task of life) is to make more offspring – that it´s the scientific meaning of life – Nature´s meaning: to reproduce. But I would answer that evolution makes more offspring (that´s reproduction) and making more offspring gives evolutionary benefits, but Nature itself does not care – it does not care about whether we nuke ourselves or not. There is no God that looks upon us and cares. Even reproduction becomes meaningless in the larger perspective. But in evolution it has significance whether one has zero offspring or ten offspring.
Rule number two (number of offspring matters) just as simple as rule number 1 (that there is life and death; that some live and some die).
The third rule that appered... – well all three rules appeared simultaneously directly when there was reproduction in this sizerange. The third rule is that:
3: There is mutation in every generation-shift. Things change. It doesn’t make perfect copies. Your child (if you have one) is not an exact copy of yourself or your wife – it’s a mutation; a change.
These three rules – 1: that there is life and death, the surviving survive. 2: That there are different nuances in the number of offspring. 3: That there is mutation in every generation-shift – these three rules came into play directly when the first reproduction occurred. We will return to these three rules over and over again; they are like laws of nature that like God says shall work on life directly when the first life reproduces itself. These laws of nature didn’t exist before the first life reproduced itself – they were not active then. They became active directly when there was reproduction.
These are abstract laws that we will manufacture, then we have the physical reality of that in a puddle of water a strand of DNA – a cell – made copies/offspring. Then viruses came into the game and injected its own DNA into the ordinary cells, that is to say: hijacked their reproductive system to create virus-offspring. If this would´ve continued the ocean would´ve been filled with only viruses, so there has to be some next step which made it so that our type of life survived. But the viruses added a 4
th
law (one of these abstract laws)
and that is: if you can hijack someone else’s reproductive system to create your own offspring; if you can inject your DNA into somebody else´s cell so that it creates viruses – I call this “power”. We will return to this word when we for example look at dinosaurs (they became bigger because the men killed each other to get the women whom make offspring). This power-principle was one that came after the three first ones.
The first cells reproduced and we had these three rules, then viruses came and injected their DNA and used “power” to produce more viruses. Then we get an immune-system which kills viruses i.e. protects the original organism´s reproductive system from being hijacked by viruses. So the immune-system evolved to take back the reproductive principle (2: the number of offspring matters); for the fact that one should retain the reproductive capability for oneself – so that no virus can take it over. So power has a lot to do with the number of offspring – principle 4 has a lot to do with principle 2.
We have multicellular organisms with immune-systems, we have viruses around them – and it´s an arms-race between that the viruses mutate to overcome the immune-system and the immune-
system mutates to overcome the virus. Thus we have an evolutionary pressure on mutating the immune-system as much as possible as fast as possible (because the viruses mutate very quickly), and the best way to do that is to combine genes from two different organisms: a man and a woman. So sex has its beginning in viruses.
If this doesn´t make you feel comfortable contemplate this: the truth outweighs positive-thinking. But does one want to remove whatever spreads joy among people? Those who want to defeat the religious violence in the world (I think religion is the biggest unnecessary cause of hatred in the world) – one cannot defeat that without defeating all religiousness simultaneously. To want to defeat one part of religion but not the rest of it is like voting for the Republicans and Democrats simultaneously – it´s just unreal. Sadly one must remove the good to remove the evil. Meditation still remains and one can get a kind of anxietylessness from some thoughts still but in the big picture there are no reasons that support them anymore – it´s just a brain-trick that one does.
In our evolutionary story we had an immune-system which mutates, wants more mutations – we get two genders. Then men begin to war with each other (because, metaphorically speaking, women can produce offspring once a year while men can produce it every day – we have an imbalance; asymmetry). Why is it always men that start wars? It began with the first fish – we had multicellular life in our story so far, so they became a bit bigger, could swim around – we get fish: it´s easier to find food then and easier to move around. Directly when there were two genders there was one fish which evolved to use its teeth for killing other male fish. The first aggressor of course got the most offspring because there were no other men around. That´s why men go to war: they can produce offspring with so many women while a woman has no benefit from having 1000 men.
There´s a caveat to
this once we get to caveman tribes/wolf-packs where a woman secretly wants many men to provide resources to her child, but at least in the era between fish and dinosaurs the picture was simply based on asymmetric reproductive rates.
So then the male fish grow more aggressive, the child who is the biggest and has the sharpest teeth kills the other male fish, has the most offspring; and in the next generation, again: the child with the most aggression and biggest muscles gets the most offspring – that´s how we get to dinosaurs and T-rex. We had males competing/fighting with each other and that´s why T-rex is so large. That is, again, the power-principle: just like viruses took over the reproductive system from the first cells, T-rex takes away the reproductive system from his rivals by killing them. So this principle number 4 (power) lives on – it has caused/causes so much: it causes the first viruses, it causes T-rex, that fish become aggressive, that we get two genders (by viruses getting power – so we wanted to counter that power by immune-systems i.e. two genders).
These dinosaurs then, just like humans don´t seem to have (sarcasm), any concept of preserving natural resources – so they would´ve eaten up all their trees and not had any food left. But on our planet it seems to have been a meteor-strike which wiped them out, but on exoplanets i.e. overall in this evolutionary series of evolutionary pressures causing various principles (first the three first principles, then the 4
th
principle, immune-systems, two-genderedness, bigger
fish, fights between the fish, dinosaurs). The dinosaurs ate their natural resources and all large life dies - so only small rat-like/squirrel-like life-forms live on.
The trees grow back up – we get monkeys.
Groups tend to, in a fight – if it´s a group against an individual (one against many) – the group tends to win. So we monkeys form groups, fighting together for food against individualists. The individualists lost.
So we got this - or had it from the get-go (just like with the first aggressors) – instinct that makes us want to be highest in the hierarchy and thereby get all the women. Power again. But this time it´s a kind of human power – we saw power when viruses took over the reproductive systems, we saw power when dinosaurs outcompeted their rivals (the men), we see power when a bully goes to the top of the hierarchy, pushes down the other men – and the women want the bully´s resources (he has the most stuff) so they´re attracted to him, so he gets the most offspring – out of his offspring the one that is best at getting power the one that gets most offspring.
The reason for why the brain grew so fast during the past 100 000 years was because we used the brain to plan for how to climb upward in the hierarchy. The reproductive benefits coming from being high-status in the hierarchy were so great comparing to being low-status that this put great selection-pressure on bigger brains.
Now we basically have caveman living in hierarchical societies, we have kings, aristocrats and slaves – and that is how the world was 5000 years ago. The kings build monumental architecture (pyramids and such). Then someone focused on a random word – so someone focused on what we talked about in part 1: Reality (that of which all is part) and realized one cannot see it (because we should be part of it, or the other two proofs for not being able to see all there is to Reality) and thus they invented the word God: it is one, one cannot see it – we have the dawn of monotheism.
Someone random-focused on the word “soul/self” too and realized one gets less anxiety by making a distinction between the body
one sees in ones imaginations
21.12
Author
yonis
Posted on
30/11/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Latest version of my book
Del 2: Evolutionsteorin
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/del2-interse-evolution.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
14/11/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Del 2: Evolutionsteorin
Posts navigation
Page
1
Page
2
Next page
Search for:
Search
Recent Posts
Talet 3
Sammanfattning universell kurs interse 11-01-2017
From Certain Truth to Dinosaurs (with Maan and Marwan)
War and Boredom
2 Nobel Prizes
Recent Comments
Archives
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
January 2016
Categories
Dagbok
Old
The book + diagrams
Trashcan
Trey
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.org
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Proudly powered by WordPress

Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen – Everyone needs to know the basics
Skip to content
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Everyone needs to know the basics
Talet 3
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/talet-3.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
17/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Talet 3
Sammanfattning universell kurs interse 11-01-2017
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/sammanfattning-universell-kurs-interse-11-01-2017.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
11/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Sammanfattning universell kurs interse 11-01-2017
From Certain Truth to Dinosaurs (with Maan and Marwan)
Author
yonis
Posted on
05/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on From Certain Truth to Dinosaurs (with Maan and Marwan)
War and Boredom
War-and-Boredom
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen, Sweden
1
War and Boredom
The title of this book refers to that it is hard to get through this book. The reason why this new science (that I present in this book) hasn’t been discovered until I did is because part 1 of this book gives a sense of meaninglessness toward the Universe and part 2 deals with evolution in a depressing way because the main trend is “power”.
Writing it gave me anxiety and reading it gives many people anxiety.
But the question is: does everyone agree on it? If they do, that changes the Israel-Palestine-conflict where the parties of God are vetoing
regarding the borders of
the
“holy land”; it changes religious extremism and the wars fought over it. Religion is the biggest cause for hatred
in the world, as Hitchens said. My book
is
a minimalist theory
that
encompasses all one needs to understand
Everything: existence (why there is size itself) and
evolution – even thoughts about the future of humanity/evolution.
Even though there comes a sense of meaninglessness from knowing the existential theory and a sense of depression from knowing evolution, there is
a sense of
honor in having the right world-view.
Most importantly, the religious wars - ISIS/Israel/etc. - can be demolished by a world-view which everyone agrees on. War only continues because it is boring to learn and teach the course I present in this book. Hence the book´s name: War and Boredom, or: how boredom (toward science) keeps the wars continuing.
Not only can this book end wars, but it can unify people so that they feel more friendliness toward each other – science is a language and speaking the same language makes it easier to make friends. Having the same associations between concepts (a scientific world-view) gives people a lot to agree on, they´ll “speak the same language”.
If anyhow you get too bored to study further, there are three parts to this book (1: the existential theory, 2: evolution, 3: the dawn of religion), and they’re written with different styles. You may jump to either part directly.
Lecture 1
Descartes
One of the aims of this course is to get EVERYONE to agree so that they have the same associations between scientific concepts.
There is no other proper way to accomplish this goal than by starting with certain truth, which was found by Descartes in the 1600s. He lived in a time where they believed in demons, Gods etc. so he postulated a thought experiment where he assumed an almighty demon was fooling him in everything he could be fooled in: what would remain as certain truth – what could he not be fooled in?
If he was being fooled, where would still be a “he” (or self) there to be fooled, meaning that the self certainly exists. A self is necessary for a self to be fooled.
Descartes had thus concluded his own existence.
Being fooled is thinking – thus thought exists. “There is thought” Descartes concluded as certain truth. The word “fooling” represents a thought-process.
Descartes found the starting-position for any inquiry about truth: we can know certainly that thinker and thought exists.
Distinction exists (a logical conclusion from the above)
Looking at what we´ve found as certain truth so far “from above” (meta), we can take the next logical step – adding a third factoid to our 2-statement (A and B above) starting position: that there is distinction (
between
thinker and thought). The fact that thinker and thought are two separate entities concluded to be certain truth
s
through two
different
logical pathway
s
lets us conclude that “distinction exists”
. There are what Chinese philosophy calls “the ten thousand things” (referring to the world) – there are at least two (three if we include “distinction” as th
e third thing) certain entities, and empirically we know there are “ten thousand things” (not taking the number 10 000 literally but just referring to multiplicity).
First universal diagram
We can draw the thinker and thought and distinction between them as two dots with a line between them on a piece of paper (fig. 1).
Now we have something all religions agree on
– we´ve drawn up ideas and associations between them. Everyone ought to have the same associations (explanatory thoughts) between the concepts we´ve looked at so far.
We have, if you will – in figure 1 – a universal diagram.
Reality
We have the capability to conglomerate many separate entities under the rubric of a single category. If we use this capability to collect the “ten thousand things” (distinct entities) we´ve found so far into a single thing, we ought to give that thing a word/name. Its definition can be “that of which all is
part” and “the opposite of separation/distinction”. I will use the word Reality to refer to this all-encompassing thing.
In lecture 2 I will present three proofs for that “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, but for now we can draw (adding to figure 1) a dot with a cross over it – the cross to symbolize that the dot itself is a false representation of Reality because we (the observer/self/thinker) should be part of that dot. See fig 2.
Thinking about what we´ve got so far
Thinking about what we´ve got so far (fig. 2) it’s a bundle of associations which make universal inter-religious (all religions agree on it) knowledge with both words and pictures.
In the next lecture I present why the line in fig 2 (see fig 3) represents the opposition/antagonism/disagreement/contraposition/divergence/variance between the two sides of the paper; between “thinker and thought” on one side of the paper and “Reality (that of which all is part; the opposite of separation)” on the other side of the paper.
Worth noting now is that the left side of the paper represents separation/distinction whilst the right side of the paper represents the opposite of separation/distinction – both are legitimate ideas: thinker and thought – and distinction – is certain truth based on Descartes and we all know which idea we refer to when talking about the all-encompassing [that of which all is part] Reality.
In the next lecture we will talk about why the line in fig. 3 makes it so that we can´t see Reality – I will present three proofs like in a crime case, and we will talk about what we can see if we can´t see Reality.
Making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far
1
See fig. 1 again: it´s our starting-point and the thinking that occurs in it happens in Descartes “realm of mind”; it is the mind´s realm (the left side of the paper) in which the thinking happens, and one thing we talk about is Reality on the right side of the paper in fig 3. Since the line in fig. 3 represents both the legitimacy of the ideas on both sides of the paper, and simultaneously the opposition between separation/distinction (on the left side of the paper) and [the opposite of separation/distinction] on the right side of the paper. That opposition is important and I will show its significance in lecture 2.
2
Starting from Descartes realm (of if you will: assuming that all we know is what we know for certain), we have the capability to state that there is a single Reality of which all is part – so even though we see separation we must grant that that separation (all entities) fits into a category we call Reality. There is a unifying whole even though the human mind (Descartes realm) is limited in its ways when it tries to contemplate Reality.
Not only is there the map-territory distinction (which will be presented as one out of three proofs in lecture 2), but there is also a more fundamental opposition between distinction and its opposite (there is a more fundamental opposition between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3). Not only are we stuck in the map-territory-distinction-realm but we also can conclude that no representation (regardless of the mind) is equal to Reality (on a more fundamental level than the map-territory-problem).
Representation is done in the brain using neurons and in a computer using electrons, but there is no reason why the most distant atom or quark couldn´t be proposed to be a symbol for [that of which all is part] – and even in that brainless scenario we will see in lecture 2 that “that of which all is part cannot be represented”. The map-territory-distinction is just proof/evidence number two in lecture 2 (for that we cannot see Reality and thus, since we do see/represent something, there must be more to Reality than can be represented i.e. the size-time-diagram (presented in lecture
2) is infinite along both axes.
Proof 3 in lecture 2 removes the brain from the equation and still proves that there is more to Reality than can be seen/represented/symbolized (using any means/any method – even without a brain), and since some representation is obviously (since we know that there are minds) possible, there must be more than can be represented/contemplated i.e. the size-axis is infinite and the time-axis is infinite in that two-axis diagram.
3
Both sides of the paper in fig. 3 are legitimate ideas. But still they are opposites (separation on one side and the opposite of separation on the other side). How can two derived-from-logic sides of the paper be opposites but still both be legitimate?
Usually opposition – like between Democrats and
Republicans – means that one is right and the other is wrong; they can´t both simultaneously be right: you can´t meaningfully vote for both parties at the same time.
The case is different between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3: both sides are right and they are opposites.
There is a single Reality and there is multiplicity in distinction.
What does this mean? That there is more to the size-time-diagram than anything could represent – any representation fails (you can think of some examples/suggestions for how to represent [that of which all is part]/[the opposite of separation]) – and thus the axes on the size-time-diagram are infinite. This is a hither to unpresented fact in science – it is new science: some of the best scientists ignorantly believe that the size-range is limited/finite.
4
We have quite a few associations and symbols in fig. 3 which must be agreed upon, and here I´m using the word “must” in the sense that “by the rules of logic X must be true”. Other civilizations throughout the infinitely many galaxies there are use the exact same ideas (but in a different language) and have the same associations between them (that there are infinitely many galaxies is derived from that the size-axis in the size-time-diagram is infinite). There is distinction as the third truth to be added to Descartes two fundamental truths (thinker and thought exist), and all that is opposed to (on the other side of the paper in fig. 3) to the all-encompassing Reality which is defined using at least two definitions: that of which all is part and the opposite of separation.
I´m tri-lingual but I write the same ideas and associate them in the same ways no matter which language I write in – its universal science beginning from certain truth. On other planets that have civilizations my writings in this book ought to match up quite near to the writings creating the same lecture series based on universal science that I´m creating
– “alien”/exo-planet
lecture series proceed, beginning from certain fact, through logical steps as I do.
5
[Thinker and thought] (certain truth) and thus distinction/separation are associated through negation/opposition to the right side of the paper in figure 3: Reality. The left side is not the right side just like separation is not its opposites. Both being legitimate ideas, though, connects them in the way that thinker and thought (and all other distinct entities) are in the category Reality.
Even though Reality and distinction are opposites, distinction dwells in (as a sub-entity within the category) Reality.
The associations between the left and right sides of the paper in figure 3 are both united through the notion “opposition” and through the notion that distinction is inherent in Reality (Reality being the opposite of distinction
because we have all-encompassing and its opposite: composite parts).
6
It is certainly true that all is part of a single Reality; but it is equally true that in every observation there is an observer and hence distinction (between thinker and thought). We see separate entities is as true as that the self that we are is not in front of us – but everything we see (thought/object) is in front of us.
That is evidence 1 in lecture 2 (not a proof, but a mere suggestion/evidence that [that of which all is part cannot be observed] and thus there is more to Reality than our concept of [infinitely much].
All we know about Reality has two properties: a size and a time. Size and time are two axes on a diagram, and thus all we know fits into the size-time-diagram (every object or location in space
has a size and time).
There is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram because all suggested representors for Reality fail
(for three reasons taken up in lecture 2).
7
All
bundles of associations in this chapter “making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far”
are written in order to create some universal brain structures (universal because science is the same everywhere (on all exo-planets), and their brains make the same associations too eventually). It´s not some random bundle of associations nor did I randomly present random ideas.
I assume the brain structure created by understanding this book is a replica of something derived from science; a replica of brain structures on the infinitely many other civilization-bearing planets. It´s a universal “ideology”, if you will.
Everyone has a possibility of sharing it in agreement – and future lectures will add a whole lot of complexity to it; agreement tends to build friendship so study is a way of bringing more peace to the world.
Once the full world-view is presented throughout this book, it´s a way of pacifying the world.
8
We have two brain-halves: one linguistic and one visual. So far we´ve both drawn pictorial representations and connected words – both brain-halves have been working. The connections across corpus collosum (which sits between the brain-halves and connects them) that connect a linguistic narrative/explanation to the pictorial representations are one day found in all humans thanks to science. Our brains are becoming more as science has a propensity to make them be.
This course itself, since it begins with certain truths and builds upon it logically, is a universal course (to the best of my ability).
The brain cells that constitute the negation (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 3) or opposition are not the same kind of cells (they are inhibitory neurons) that connect thinker with though as both being certain truths (but the thinker is not the thought and thus has inhibitory cells making that brain-structure work too
(what you are is not in front of you;
what you are is not visible).
Since both Reality and [what you are]/self/observer/thinker are invisible the brain might erroneously and spontaneously try to associate them, so a brain-structure is needed to inhibit that association (and replace it with a more complex explanation). That spontaneous but erroneous association is something all thinking animals throughout the universe evolved to do, and the inhibition of it through culture/civilizing/science is universally available within complex enough civilizations throughout the universe.
As you can see the brain structures responsible for doing this thing are quite complex, but also universal and thus accessible to all humans, and predictably will someday be in all humans (fostering agreement, thus friendship, thus peace).
Lecture 2
Perceive, apprehend, notice are synonyms for our representing ability, but I will use the word “see” or “observe” to refer to all of these. The goal of this lecture is to prove the statement “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, Reality being defined as “that of which all is part”. In other words: we cannot see Reality, and thus there is more to Reality than even can be contemplated (i.e. infinitely much).
I will build this lecture like a criminal court case: I will present three proofs for that we cannot see Reality i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated i.e. (since we can contemplate anything (right or wrong)) Reality is infinite.
Since anything/everything we know about Reality has some size and time, it fits into a size-time-diagram. See fig. 4.
In fig. 4 size is represented along the vertical axis and time along the horizontal axis. The objects humans see in everyday life (from the horizon to a single cell as one “pixel” in our visual field) are marked in “the human range”.
See fig 5.
In fig. 5 I´ve drawn the same diagram as in fig. 4 but this time with infinity-symbols in each corner of the squareical size-time-diagram. Two infinite axes become a square.
Proof number 3 in our “court case” for proving that the size-time-diagram (Reality) is infinite has us imagine the unobservable separatenessless Reality and ask whether there is a maximum or minimum size to/in it (a maximum/minimum being separateness while we are talking about the opposite of separation). This is again to confirm that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes.
The line we drew in fig. 4 was for separating the two sides of the paper; opposing “thinker and thought” (distinction) with its opposite: one all-encompassing non-distinction Reality. That opposition-line is what this lecture is about since it proves that the two sides of the paper are separate/opposing realms and we are stuck in one realm as long as we are observers (because observation is separation/distinction (thinker and thought)).
Proving that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes is new science because it poses the question: what happened before the Big Bang (14 billion years ago), and it presents one pillar of our existential theory: that each size is the reason for each next and previous size, and the size axis is infinite, meaning the “beginning” of the relationship between sizes keeps retreating into infinity the more we contemplate the range of the size axis.
When I presented fig. 4 for the first time I drew a cross over the dot symbolizing Reality for the plain reason that we (as observers) should be part of that dot, and by the very nature of us being separate (and the dot representing the opposite of separation) we should draw a cross over it symbolizing that we cannot see it.
The main proof though is that even if all observers were dead there´d still be, inherent and fundamental in nature, the opposition between distinction and distinction´s opposite (the two sides of the paper in fig. 4). The line is an opposition-line and it is more fundamental than being dependent on humans/observers – it refers to all representation whether it’s using/including humans or not. I am, in other words, not talking about the map-territory distinction (which symbolizes that humans have mental maps and not the real world per se; like Kant said: we have “the thing” and not “the thing itself”). Proof 2 – the opposition-line between the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 – is not subjective: it is true that we live with the map-territory-distinction but even if I died there´d still be separate things (chairs separate from cups), that kind of separation is not dependent on me/observers. Simultaneously the flipside of the coin (the other side of the paper in fig. 4) is true too: all is one single Reality (the opposite of separation). Proof 2, in other words, should not be interpreted as signifying the map-territory distinction (human subjectivity) but instead a fundamental opposition in the universe.
If we do not see Reality, then what do we see? Everything we see fits into the size-time-diagram, and since the opposition-line in fig. 4 shows that there is a fundamental rule that states, in 3 different proofs, that Reality is infinite / there is more than can even be contemplated / there is more than even non-subjective representation can represent.
Proof number 1 is really weaker than a “proof” – it´s more like evidence. It wouldn´t hold up in a court but it is a way of stating what the other proofs too point towards. Proof 1 is what we saw when presenting figure 4: any dot representing Reality is an incorrect representation because the observer should be part of the object – the thinker should be part of the thought. It denies Cartesian separation and thus is untrue, meaning that anything we draw on the right side of the paper in fig. 4 is incorrect.
We can contemplate anything: we can speculate about what´s smaller than quantum physics, or even what´s smaller than that, etc. into infinity. We are probably wrong, but any contemplation/representation counts as a contemplation – and since we know that, whether right or wrong as our contemplations may be, there is more to Reality than can be contemplated, it follows
that there must be infinitely much to Reality. Since all we know about Reality fits into a size-time-diagram, the minimalist approach is to state that it´s the size-time-diagram that is infinite.
This warrants two new words: the knowable/known size-range and the infinite size-range. The knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range. Since Einstein unified space (size) and time, one cannot be infinite without the other one being the same. Science today doesn´t know whether there was a “before” to the Big Bang or not (whether time was created at the Big Bang), but now we know that the Big Bang is just an event on an infinite time axis. In a future lecture we will talk about how/why the Big Bang recreates (happens over and over).
We talked about universal diagrams (and universal brain-structures) in lecture 1. The size-time-diagram is one major universal diagram. A lot of detail can be added to it because all fields of science fit into it. The infinity-symbols on each axis of the squareical diagram are drawn, based on science, on exo-planets with advanced enough civilizations.
This lecture is about proving that [that of which all is part] (the opposite of separation) i.e. Reality cannot be observed/represented, and that this fact is true irrespective of whether we are observers or dead, and applying this to the size-time-diagram (which gets its infinity-symbols into the squareical diagram).
Proof number 2 (the main proof) is the oppositional approach between Reality and distinction, and it is not subjective because Reality and Reality´s opposite exist even if we were dead. Proof number 3 is about imagining (even though no imagination is it) Reality as a big gray (because energymass is white and spacetime is black) solid, in which we know no observer should be (because observation is separation) – does it have separation i.e. a biggest and a smallest size? No, because such distinctions are not in the opposite of distinction (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 4).
I´ve mentioned universal associations in the brain / exo-planet science, so talking about the size-time-diagram we can add more universal notions to it: why did I draw upwards on the size axis as larger and downward as smaller? Why is the time-axis horizontally drawn instead of vertically? The diagram works even if we would define the vertical axis as time and the horizontal axis as size – so why do we draw size vertically and time horizontally? Is it universal i.e. on other planets or just a human convention like writing from left to right in English-speaking countries and right to left in Arabic-speaking countries?
Evolution has it so that during the history of science telescopes look upward and microscopes look downward. This would be the case on other planets too: they turn their heads upward to see the large and downward (onto a table) to see the small; the opposite can´t be true on any planet. Thus we get the size axis´ standard (of upward being larger) from evolution / the history of science. I use the word “standard” because it comes from evolution rather than being more fundamentally hard-wired into the universe such as the fact that the size-time-diagram is a square with infinity symbols. That the size-time-diagram is a square is not a standard – it is something stronger than that. The fact that we represent time on the vertical axis (and upward as larger) comes from a weaker source: tradition (even though that same tradition is true on all planets; evolution, in this regard, happens the same on all planets that end up with civilizations).
We thus have added standards or weak conventions (derived from history) in addition to having strong diagrams like the size-time-diagram being a square. The distinction between the two is made based on science and is thus made on exo-planets.
Scientists are looking for exo-planets that bear civilizations. If the size-range is infinite – as we´ve proven that it is – then each particular size (like the human range in fig. 5) is infinite too; if the largest is infinitely large then there is, considering the size of a human, an infinite distance in any direction that that human could find itself in. This makes civilizations on other planets a must, not an assumption. The known/knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range, and within the known size-range there is a range in which evolution occurs (between the smallest cells and the biggest organisms), and since we´ve proven that there are infinitely many objects within/of that size-range, then there must be infinitely many locations in which evolution occurs.
In the next lecture we will bind together the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 (distinction and distinction´s opposite; “thinker and thought” opposing Reality) with E=mc
2
(energymasspacetime) and with the infinity of the size-time axes, into a single existential theory which is a rival to “God created earth in 6 days…” The existential theory is a minimalist account for why there is a sizescale in the first place, and why there is something (energymass) rather than nothing (spacetime). It reminds me of this passage: “HITCHENS: In other words, as the great physicist Laplace said when he demonstrated his working model (his orrery, as it’s called) of the solar system to the emperor and Napoleon said, “Well I see there’s no God in this system,” and Laplace said, “Well, Your Majesty, it works without that assumption.””
In this chapter I´ve presented three proofs for that the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in it i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated; we do represent something but however we choose to represent (even representations that can be proposed as thought-experiments if we were dead) we do not represent Reality i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality. Are there any counter-arguments saying that the size-time-diagram is finite? I built this lecture like a court case and I´d like to hear the opposing side. There are no arguments that oppose what I´ve proven so far.
Lecture 3
E=mc
2
E=mc
2
as an equation is only used in relativistic scenarios such as very high speed or very high energy, but since speed is a continuum the equation is true at slower speeds. There is a difference between the equation being applicable (being needed while solving equations) and it being true; it is always true everywhere but it is not needed for equations except in special scenarios.
An example of the equation being true everywhere and always is this: nuclear power-plants turn mass (kilograms) into energy (joule), so that if you input 1 kg of uranium-mass you get out 99.9999 kg of waste products – some of the mass turned into energy which lights our light-bulbs. The atoms that lost some weight (that weight was converted into energy) are atoms just like other kinds of atoms, for example in autumn leaves. If you´d drop leaves into the core of the sun, the sun´s nuclear furnace
would turn mass in the leaves into energy (light). Hence all objects are subject to the E=mc
2
-rule, which states that energy (E) equals mass (m). This warrants the word energymass because they are no longer two distinct things – they are but different manifestations of the same thing. In the brain energymass should be a single idea whilst the concepts “energy and mass” refers to two different forms of a single idea.
Verbs and adjectives tend to refer to energy (shining, running, etc.) while nouns refer to mass (body, tree, etc.) E=mc
2
states that the two (verbs/adjectives and nouns) are together in a single equation. Although only applicable in relativistic scenarios (the role of relativism becomes close to zero in everyday human events, except that our light-bulbs shine because mass turns into energy and the sun can makes leaves into light), E=mc
2
is in a “philosophical” sense true everywhere and always just like Pythagoras’s theorem about triangles remains “philosophically true” even where there are no physical triangles. You wouldn´t say 1=1 is not true in empty space just because there are no objects there to count as “1”.
In addition to energymass being a single concept (and not two distinct ones), spacetime gets added into the mix by the c
2
-part of the equation. c is the speed of light (km/h) and thus a distance (space) over time – spacetime! Energymass (E=m) and spacetime (c
2
) should in the brain be represented by a single idea which we can call energymasspacetime. This harkens back to the previous lectures about Reality, which is a synonym for energymasspacetime. Einstein invented the equation E=mc
2
and thus unified in it energymass with spacetime – and synonyms for energymass are “existence” or “1” while synonyms for spacetime are “non-existence”, “emptiness”, “nothing” and “zero”. There is no more to be considered regarding Reality than energymasspacetime; energymasspacetime involves everything (energymass) and nothing (spacetime) so there is nothing more to be considered/added to Reality – Reality is energymasspacetime; everything is included into Reality once we have defined Reality as energymasspacetime.
The Existential Theory
Each culture seems to have a creation myth (such as genesis) – the creation of the cosmos/world/Reality is something humans have invented hypotheses for during millennia. The stories answer the question “why are we here?”
The true answer is unintuitive. First of all: why is there any particular size? What justifies, say, the size of a molecule? The answer is: the smaller and the larger (the rest of the size-range). Atoms justify a molecule and a molecule exhibits a place for atoms to live in: justifies atoms. Humans need an earth to dwell on (the earth is larger) and humans are made of cells (cells are smaller). Each size bears a relationship upon each other size – the smaller justify the larger and the larger justify the smaller. Since the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all four corners of the square (because of the proof where we had two sides of a paper), the size-range is infinite i.e. the pattern of justification between/amongst sizes continues into the infinitely large and infinitely small. What the ancients called “the first cause” keeps retreating into infinity size-wise the more we contemplate it. The size-range is like a fractal: you can keep zooming in or out infinitely much, and the question “why is there this particular object that I see” has its answer in the relationship between all the sizes: justification. Infinite justification is the reason why there is a size-range at all. But there is more that is needed for a full-fledged existential theory: two more factors play their roles.
Spacetime is emptier than we can imagine/represent it. We (and all representeurs) are energymass and thus are the opposite of spacetime. We could let a piece of empty space represent spacetime, but as soon as we use energymass (such as our brains) to do so, we´ve lost the truly empty nature of spacetime: it is unimaginably empty. Any bundle of neurons, no matter how we wire it, is still the opposite of what they want to represent when they want to present us with spacetime. It is therefore useful to have two concepts for spacetime: (1) our simplest intuition of spacetime and (2) additional defining language explaining that spacetime is emptier than (1). This is how exoplanet civilizations would wire their brains regarding the concept “spacetime” too, just because it’s the most accurate science they can manage.
Just like energy and mass are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon, energymass and spacetime are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon. What does it mean for spacetime to be bundled together with (intertwined with) energymass? Everything exists as/in/because of nothing; 1 exists in 0; energymass and spacetime are together in the E=mc
2
-equation. Where could energymass/existence exist? In nothingness. Just like sizes justify one another, spacetime justifies energymass.
The last question that remains, after we have justification between sizes in an infinite size-range, and that all points in the size-time-diagram are made of energymasspacetime (and energymass is justified by it being in spacetime), is the objective fact that there both is a single Reality (the right side of the paper) and there´s its opposite: distinction (between, say, thinker and thought).
The existential theory builds on three “pillars”/fundamental ideas:
An infinite sizescale,
Energymasspacetime as in the equation E=mc
2
Distinction between distinction itself and distinction´s opposite (see fig. 1, 2, 3):
Between distinction (the left side of the paper, our 2 certain truths: I exist and there is thought) and Reality (the opposite of distinction; one Reality (not plural)) there is a line that demarcates distinction/opposition.
Putting it all into one phrase we might say: “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime with opposition between distinction and Oneness”. At its core it´s three ideas (infinite size-time-diagram, energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
), separation and intertwinedness (the two sides of the paper)). On exoplanets they would state their reason for their own existence using these three ideas too, because taken together they explain all that needs to be explained: first thing that comes to mind is that in the stated existential theory there must be a reproducing shape (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape; a DNA-strand) somewhere. If the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all three corners, then evolution ought to occur somewhere (and be made of energymass in spacetime, while being separate/distinct in a single intertwined Reality).
Most creation-myths have a quite simple (one-pillared) and mundane story: for example genesis just states that God created Reality (that of which all is part) in 6 days and rested on the 7
th
. The scientific rival to all such creation stories is a three-pillared theory – we can´t make it any simpler (we can´t make it one-pillared) and the same would be the case on exoplanets: they too can only break it down to three interconnected ideas/pillars/fundaments, so in thinking this way we share a common intellectual history with exoplanet civilizations advanced enough to figure out this existential theory.
On a test on this subject a question might be: “what are the three pillars of the existential theory?” – the question can´t be “what is the most important pillar in the existential theory?” All pillars are
equally important but constitute as distinct ideas as E=mc
2
is from infinite size, or the separation-intertwinedness-opposition (fig. 3).
This three-pillared creation story – the sum of these three chapters – is built upon logic: it includes certain truths like “I think and I exist” (distinction/separation), its opposite (Reality for which we have three proofs for that it can´t be observed/seen/contemplated i.e. the size-time-diagram is infinite), E=mc
2
which unifies nothing/spacetime with existence/energymass, and the relationship between any two sizes (justification along the infinite size-range). Every one of these ideas relates very closely to Descartes´ certain truth, meaning we can be sure of the ideas themselves – and they together build up a minimalist existential theory which needs no further logic to explain everything there is.
Having an infinite size-range has a predictive quality to it too – it makes a prediction: there ought to be evolution (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar mass) somewhere in the diversity we see throughout even the known size-range.
Though as non-intuitive as the 3-pillar existential theory may be to our evolved brains who want a single conclusion, exoplanet civilizations have the same limits and biases as us: they too are stuck with three pillars in a single theory to make the theory explainable. Science is creating universal (exoplanet) neural pathways in our brains. We should embrace the fact that by being non-intuitive but true, this science wires our brain based on science and thus universally. It is the way (the wiring) that all planets are headed to if they´re into science. It´s a universal world-view. We´re thinking like aliens.
In current scientific debates the religious will argue that faith (in a dogma) is needed to (what they call) “understand” the existence of the universe. If confronted with my theory (these lectures) they´d have to agree that logic makes their God unnecessary as a pillar of creation. In the best case scenario God is simply a synonym for Reality (because Reality is “that of which all is part” and thus God ought to be part of it too, and all we know about Reality is that it is energymass in spacetime and separation in intertwinedness).
Having an explanation – the negative side of it is it being three-pillared and unintuitive, the positive side of it being that it accounts for all of Reality and predicts evolution – further justifies the saying “a God of the gaps” (meaning the more we understand the less we need God). Now all that remains to be understood – again in an unintuitive but identical to exoplanets -way – is how, on an infinite time-line, the Big Bang (denseness) recreates and fades away into sparseness (black holes removing energymass and dark energy creating more space until no galaxies are anymore visible).
Lecture 4
The beginning of the Big Bang
I have a hard time imagining how the universe can reach complete emptiness, but it wouldn´t be the first time the universe´s nature surpasses human intuition. In the history of science stars were observed to not move relative to one another on the night sky, and this was argued to prove that the
size of the universe was much smaller than the now known size – it was argued that the universe would be “unreasonably big” if the stars didn´t seem to move relative to one another as the earth moved because they were so far away.
If only enough time is needed for the universe to become empty, then we get the starting scenario which is most reasonable: we start with emptiness (spacetime). Again, spacetime is emptier than our concept for it because we (and our concepts) are made of energymass.
If you move your hand one meter (from position 1 to position 2), the laws of nature that make your hand make sense were already in place in the space of position 2 before you moved your hand there. It´s not like the universe/spacetime was absurd in location 2 and only started to make sense regarding hands when you moved your hand there. We do not impact the laws of nature in such ways; instead the laws of nature are simultaneously and equally true at all locations and all times. In other words: Pythagoras’s theorem is true even in locations where there are no objects whatsoever, but the theorem is only applicable (to be applied) to triangles. In empty space there are no objects and thus no triangles, but Pythagoras´s theorem is true there anyhow – it does not suddenly become true (switch from being untrue to true) when a triangle is imagined or physically moved there. This applies to E=mc
2
too, which is just as much of a law of nature as Pythagoras´s theorem. E=mc
2
is true everywhere and always, though humans only apply (use) the equation in certain scenarios. Where triangles can be (in spacetime) there is also E=mc
2
. Laws of nature are fundamental and inherent in spacetime and do not come about depending on events (though our application/use of any particular equation is dependent on which event we´re analyzing).
There is distinction between the practical use of equations (to solve problems or understand a phenomenon) and the core nature of spacetime having laws of nature in it. Spacetime is a no-nonsense spacetime – we live in a rational (laws of nature-abiding) universe.
One law being E=mc
2
and another one being “if it is said it must exist” (meaning energymass can´t be mentioned in the laws of nature of spacetime without energymass existing), we get spacetime to summon energymass if the starting-point was complete emptiness. “If energymass is mentioned it must be summoned” (it is mentioned in E=mc
2
) is true because it would be a nonsense universe if it “talks” about energymass without there being any – just infinite space for eternity with laws of nature regarding energymass, but never any energymass appearing/being present. It would be a nonsense universe if energymass it mentioned but never exists. It would be akin to the universe telling lies (having all these rules like E=mc
2
but never applying them to anything), or the universe babbling gibberish (having inapplicable laws of nature).
Thus, E=mc
2
being a core property of spacetime itself and the “no gibberish”-rule applying, energymass must logically be summoned – but how and where? Extremely dense i.e. everywhere, in the smallest spaces, simultaneously. Why? Our starting-point is spacetime, which needs no prior justification because it is the opposite of existence: it doesn´t exist – it is emptier than our neurons make it out to be. In it Einstein´s theory of relativity is true, meaning that there is no center point (or in other words: all points are the center) so there is no center to the Big Bang. Another way of seeing it is that as soon as there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification), E=mc
2
became true in all locations (in the smallest spaces) simultaneously – no point in space was before another in having E=mc
2
be true in it. Spacetime having E=mc
2
as a core property has E=mc
2
be true everywhere
simultaneously; once we have the launching-condition of empty spacetime, through E=mc
2
, energymass is summoned everywhere simultaneously.
This “everywhere” is all things within an event horizon, meaning that things moving away faster than the speed of light (due to dark energy/accelerating cosmic expansion) are not within our event horizon: they are not part of what can be reasonably called “our 3-dimensional space” (from our location). Things are not part of our universe once their speed hits faster than the speed of light – and many locations, within the boundaries of their respective event horizons, will one day have all energymass moving away from them at speeds faster than the speed of light (this is just the observed fact of accelerating cosmic expansion). Such a finite space with no energymass within its event horizon (all energymass moving away faster than the speed of light) would constitute “completely empty space” i.e. our starting-point for the Big Bang (energymass being summoned due to E=mc
2
).
Consider an infinite size-range - it is made of energymasspacetime: if we draw it as the Y-axis on a diagram, there can´t be a region/length in it (such as the knowable size-range) which is completely empty forever. See fig. 6.
Because of the rules E=mc
2
and “if it is mentioned it must be summoned”/”no-nonsense universe” are true throughout the infinite size-range, there can´t be a region with just spacetime (with its laws of nature) because the laws of spacetime mention energymass; spacetime is inherently tied to and intertwined with energymass – existence and non-existence go together (at all sizes). There would be no logical breaking-point (a particular size) where energymasspacetime transitions into being just spacetime for a range of sizes and then transitions back into energymasspacetime; there is no logical breaking-point where the implications of E=mc
2
(the implication being: energymass and spacetime are in the same equation) stop to be true. The transition seen in fig. 6 is impossible (there is no “empty region”). Having an empty region would be akin to zooming into the decimals of pi and seeing no numbers for a specific array of decimals: 3.14159ÄÄÄÄ265359... The Ä´s can´t be there: it´s a continuous sequence of decimal numbers. There is no break/”empty region” in the continuous decimals of pi just as there is no region of the size-range that can be empty of energymass.
In this chapter I´ve written something akin to “
first
there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification unless you consider that the size-axis of the size-time-diagram is infinite),
then
there was E=mc
2
,
then
there was energymass summoned into the smallest spaces available (available = considered to be within an event horizon and empty)”. This harkens back to previous lectures´ talk about “alien logic” (how exoplanets think). To have it make sense to our brains we use the time-distinctions “first, then and then” but the real distinction is not in time but in steps in a sequence of logic. In other words all the mentioned steps happened simultaneously to start the Big Bang: E=mc
2
was true as soon as there was spacetime, and as soon as there was that, energymass appeared as not to make the universe absurd (by it talking gibberish or it having an empty region like in fig. 6).
The end of the Big Bang
Telescopes observe that “space is being born” i.e. that the distances between clumps of energymass (galaxies) are getting larger, and at an accelerating pace too. Not only does the Hubble law state that an object a
million light
-
years
away would be receding from us at 21 km/sec and at double the distance twice the speed, but the law states that that speed (for example 21 km/sec a million light years away) is increasing. This is called accelerating cosmic expansion. It means that from our galaxy, when/if we look into the sky trillions of years in the future, we´d see no trace of any other galaxy let alone the cosmic microwave background (because their speeds have passed the speed of light and thus went beyond the event horizon). Once that object a million light years away from us which today is racing away at 21 km/sec reaches 299792 km/sec (the speed of light), it will pass from being within our event horizon to being outside our sphere of events.
This empties our universe or as Hitchens put it: “nothingness is coming”. Once that nothingness comes we have our starting point where we run through the logic of E=mc
2
–> “if it is mentioned it must exist/be summoned” (in order for the universe not to talk gibberish or the infinite size-range not to have a break in it) –> energymass begins as dense (because of relativity and because E=mc
2
is true everywhere simultaneously/equally).
We observe that nothingness (within event horizons) is coming, and beginning from nothingness there is unintuitive logic that has a predictive quality to it: the Big Bang should start dense. This theory works well with lecture 2´s proofs for that “there is more to Reality than can be represented” (the size-time-diagram is infinite) because size is essentially space, and space and time are intertwined into a single spacetime – hence: if size/space is infinite then time must be infinite too. In other words we have reoccurring Big Bangs interspersed along the time-axis of our size-time-diagram. As soon as a region bound by an event horizon becomes empty we have the universe´s no-nonsense-laws kicking in and E=mc
2
summons energymass (in the smallest sizes that are empty equally/simultaneously).
The sequence of consecutive Big Bangs´ beginnings (emptiness leading to energymass being summoned) and ends (accelerating cosmic expansion speeding things past a point´s event horizon and emptiness being summoned) are as infinite as the time-axis proved to be based on lecture 2´s proofs. Proving (in lecture 2) that spacetime is infinite fits perfectly with the reoccurring Big Bangs (when somethingness becomes emptiness and then emptiness summons somethingness).
There will in other words, between the beginning of a Big Bang and the end of that same Big Bang, be life within the conscious/human size-range (the different locations of that size already being infinitely many, see fig. 4).
Each size along the size-axis is defined as “3-dimensional infinite space” meaning there is infinitely much life with access to universal science (i.e. some version of this lecture-series), and within our region (bound by an event horizon) there is life between the beginning and end of Big Bangs. In addition I have hard to believe that a reproducing shape (and thus evolution) only occurs in only
one
size-range (the, for humans, knowable size-range) in an infinite size-range: there ought to be many sub-size-ranges as part of the infinite size-range where evolution occurs and can reach scientific knowledge. All life mentioned above, if they reach scientific understanding, would concur on the existential theory presented in these lectures (especially lecture 3 – the three pillars/foundations/ideas which together become a minimalist theory for why there is the infinite size-range of energymasspacetime in the first place).
This is not only exoplanet science – it is science between Big Bangs and it is science in regions of the size-axis far away (in size) from our knowable size-range. See fig. 7.
Summary
First we looked at Descartes’ ”thought exists” and ”the self exists”, claimed that it was two valid statements and pointed out the distinction between them. On the other side of the paper we wanted to represent anti-distinction (the opposite of distinction) defined as “that of which all is part” (Reality), and realized that since thinker/thought is stuck on the left side of the paper we can’t represent Reality. This is not only Kant’s “the thing is not the thing itself (the mental map is not the real territory)” but more importantly whatever cannot be taken to represent “that of which all is part” i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality.
All we know about Reality (atoms, humans, galaxies) fit into a size-time-diagram (every object has a size and a time), so the minimalist approach combining the above paragraph with this one is to use the first paragraph to prove that the size-time diagram has infinite
axes. This in turn leads to an existential theory which can be summed up as “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime” – and it has a predictive quality to it: somewhere in such an existence there would be a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape and thus we get reproduction/evolution.
So far we’ve looked at the theory of why size itself exists, why there is something rather than nothing – an existential theory beginning from certain truth and logically building its way up all the way to predicting evolution.
Part 2: Evolution
My explanation of evolution focuses on how important disease and bullying (power) was for evolution.
Power
means that
fish
were
fighting fish breeding more agressive fish = dinosaurs, then
wolfpacks with an alpha male.
But even before and after those eras in evolution the rule of power was in play.
In part one we had an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime (including the intertwinedness-separation-opposition and the time-axis with repeating Big Bangs perpendicular to the size-axis) that predicts a reproducing shape i.e. a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape: reproduction in an infinite size-range.
This infinite size-range predicts reproduction.
Part one was about why there is a sizescale of energymasspacetime: the answers are that the sizescale is infinite and that energymass is in spacetime. It predicts that there should be a reproducing shape: say that it is a triangle which gathers surrounding lines into a similar triangle – then it has reproduced itself. The products of this reproduction obey three rules: directly when there was reproduction three rules came into play, I´ve listed them below as 1, 2, 3 but they are not in order (they came simultaneously):
1:
There is life and death: those who survive survive and those who die are not in the game anymore. “The surviving survive”. It´s so simple – we see it in everyday life today. But everything in evolution will come back to these three rules so we might as well do the banal and bring them up.
So directly when there was a reproducing shape - so in our part of the size-range a DNA-strand which split in the middle and became two DNA-strands – the copy either survived or died.
2: The second rule is that the number of offspring has significance. That is to say: if you get one child or five children or ten children, there is a difference between those numbers – and in evolution it´s a benefit to have more children. One can also have zero children, and that is approximately like being dead.
Some would say that evolution´s meaning (the main task of life) is to make more offspring – that it´s the scientific meaning of life – Nature´s meaning: to reproduce. But I would answer that evolution makes more offspring (that´s reproduction) and making more offspring gives evolutionary benefits, but Nature itself does not care – it does not care about whether we nuke ourselves or not. There is no God that looks upon us and cares. Even reproduction becomes meaningless in the larger perspective. But in evolution it has significance whether one has zero offspring or ten offspring.
Rule number two (number of offspring matters) just as simple as rule number 1 (that there is life and death; that some live and some die).
The third rule that appered... – well all three rules appeared simultaneously directly when there was reproduction in this sizerange. The third rule is that:
3: There is mutation in every generation-shift. Things change. It doesn’t make perfect copies. Your child (if you have one) is not an exact copy of yourself or your wife – it’s a mutation; a change.
These three rules – 1: that there is life and death, the surviving survive. 2: That there are different nuances in the number of offspring. 3: That there is mutation in every generation-shift – these three rules came into play directly when the first reproduction occurred. We will return to these three rules over and over again; they are like laws of nature that like God says shall work on life directly when the first life reproduces itself. These laws of nature didn’t exist before the first life reproduced itself – they were not active then. They became active directly when there was reproduction.
These are abstract laws that we will manufacture, then we have the physical reality of that in a puddle of water a strand of DNA – a cell – made copies/offspring. Then viruses came into the game and injected its own DNA into the ordinary cells, that is to say: hijacked their reproductive system to create virus-offspring. If this would´ve continued the ocean would´ve been filled with only viruses, so there has to be some next step which made it so that our type of life survived. But the viruses added a 4
th
law (one of these abstract laws)
and that is: if you can hijack someone else’s reproductive system to create your own offspring; if you can inject your DNA into somebody else´s cell so that it creates viruses – I call this “power”. We will return to this word when we for example look at dinosaurs (they became bigger because the men killed each other to get the women whom make offspring). This power-principle was one that came after the three first ones.
The first cells reproduced and we had these three rules, then viruses came and injected their DNA and used “power” to produce more viruses. Then we get an immune-system which kills viruses i.e. protects the original organism´s reproductive system from being hijacked by viruses. So the immune-system evolved to take back the reproductive principle (2: the number of offspring matters); for the fact that one should retain the reproductive capability for oneself – so that no virus can take it over. So power has a lot to do with the number of offspring – principle 4 has a lot to do with principle 2.
We have multicellular organisms with immune-systems, we have viruses around them – and it´s an arms-race between that the viruses mutate to overcome the immune-system and the immune-system mutates to overcome the virus. Thus we have an evolutionary pressure on mutating the immune-system as much as possible as fast as possible (because the viruses mutate very quickly), and the best way to do that is to combine genes from two different organisms: a man and a woman. So sex has its beginning in viruses.
If this doesn´t make you feel comfortable contemplate this: the truth outweighs positive-thinking. But does one want to remove whatever spreads joy among people? Those who want to defeat the religious violence in the world (I think religion is the biggest unnecessary cause of hatred in the world) – one cannot defeat that without defeating all religiousness simultaneously. To want to defeat one part of religion but not the rest of it is like voting for the Republicans and Democrats simultaneously – it´s just unreal. Sadly one must remove the good to remove the evil. Meditation still remains and one can get a kind of anxietylessness from some thoughts still but in the big picture there are no reasons that support them anymore – it´s just a brain-trick that one does.
In our evolutionary story we had an immune-system which mutates, wants more mutations – we get two genders. Then men begin to war with each other (because, metaphorically speaking, women can produce offspring once a year while men can produce it every day – we have an imbalance; asymmetry). Why is it always men that start wars? It began with the first fish – we had multicellular life in our story so far, so they became a bit bigger, could swim around – we get fish: it´s easier to find food then and easier to move around. Directly when there were two genders there was one fish which evolved to use its teeth for killing other male fish. The first aggressor of course got the most offspring because there were no other men around. That´s why men go to war: they can produce offspring with so many women while a woman has no benefit from having 1000 men.
There´s a caveat to
this once we get to caveman tribes/wolf-packs where a woman secretly wants many men to provide resources to her child, but at least in the era between fish and dinosaurs the picture was simply based on asymmetric reproductive rates.
So then the male fish grow more aggressive, the child who is the biggest and has the sharpest teeth kills the other male fish, has the most offspring; and in the next generation, again: the child with the most aggression and biggest muscles gets the most offspring – that´s how we get to dinosaurs and T-rex. We had males competing/fighting with each other and that´s why T-rex is so large. That is, again, the power-principle: just like viruses took over the reproductive system from the first cells, T-rex takes away the reproductive system from his rivals by killing them. So this principle number 4 (power) lives on – it has caused/causes so much: it causes the first viruses, it causes T-rex, that fish become aggressive, that we get two genders (by viruses getting power – so we wanted to counter that power by immune-systems i.e. two genders).
These dinosaurs then, just like humans don´t seem to have (sarcasm), any concept of preserving natural resources – so they would´ve eaten up all their trees and not had any food left. But on our planet it seems to have been a meteor-strike which wiped them out, but on exoplanets i.e. overall in this evolutionary series of evolutionary pressures causing various principles (first the three first principles, then the 4
th
principle, immune-systems, two-genderedness, bigger
fish, fights between the fish, dinosaurs). The dinosaurs ate their natural resources and all large life dies - so only small rat-like/squirrel-like life-forms live on.
The trees grow back up – we get monkeys.
Groups tend to, in a fight – if it´s a group against an individual (one against many) – the group tends to win. So we monkeys form groups, fighting together for food against individualists. The individualists lost.
So we got this - or had it from the get-go (just like with the first aggressors) – instinct that makes us want to be highest in the hierarchy and thereby get all the women. Power again. But this time it´s a kind of human power – we saw power when viruses took over the reproductive systems, we saw power when dinosaurs outcompeted their rivals (the men), we see power when a bully goes to the top of the hierarchy, pushes down the other men – and the women want the bully´s resources (he has the most stuff) so they´re attracted to him, so he gets the most offspring – out of his offspring the one that is best at getting power the one that gets most offspring.
The reason for why the brain grew so fast during the past 100 000 years was because we used the brain to plan for how to climb upward in the hierarchy. The reproductive benefits coming from being
cchigh-status in the hierarchy were so great comparing to being low-status that this put great selection-pressure on bigger brains.
Now we basically have caveman living in hierarchical societies, we have kings, aristocrats and slaves – and that is how the world was 5000 years ago. The kings build monumental architecture (pyramids and such). Then someone focused on a random word – so someone focused on what we talked about in part 1: Reality (that of which all is part) and realized one cannot see it (because we should be part of it, or the other two proofs for not being able to see all there is to Reality) and thus they invented the word God: it is one, one cannot see it – we have the dawn of monotheism.
Someone random-focused on the word “soul/self” too and realized one gets less anxiety by making a distinction between the body
one sees in ones imaginations
(the body in one´s plans which tries to get reproduction, survival, resources, power, etc. – the three evolutionary principles that we listed in the beginning of this chapter). One sees a body in front of oneself which tries to make plans to get these things. But it is not that body which is “true” – instead it´s the observer which sees this body
which is “True” – and one cannot see that observer because one is it all the time. This was when they invented the Soul.
So the words God and Soul are legitimate concepts – then the church added a bunch of things like “the soul is immortal” and that “God said this and that to one or another person” (prophets and so on whom lied about a bunch of things). We also have the Golden Rule “do onto others like you would like to have them do onto you” which is a universal thing that they surely have on other planets: we are all humans, we want to be treated as of equal value. So from evolution we went from having cavemen to that someone came up with these
simple
thoughts, and then the church added a bunch of clutter to them. We thus have religions´ beginnings. The ideas of soul (the True self/observer which can´t be seen) and God (that of which all is part is One) are scientific ideas – so to some extent we have the beginnings of science.
Then people invented the telescope and microscope (to discover the sizes in the size-range), and we have a lot of knowledge and upbringing – but this is more intellectual history instead of biological history/evolution – but the intellectual has its foundation in the biological. So now we have gone through the whole story from the first cells to the birth of science.
I try to make this into a theory that is agreed upon by everyone; nowadays there are people who say that God (defined as a metaphysical mind) is needed to understand the theory of evolution – that there are mysteries within evolution. But I see no mysteries in this.
In a future book we will look at consciousness: which kind of emotional repertoire we have. We already said that we want power, we want reproduction, we want resources… But we will look closer at exactly which emotions exist and into which categories one can categorize them – and why they came about (what their evolutionary histories/pressures are). Which exact emotions? The feeling that one wants power, the feeling that one wants to help the flock, the feeling that one wants to plan how to get reproduction… - everything we do / the things that we do. For example I wrote this book because I´m at “war” with the enemies of civilization (“the enemy tribe”), because I want power out of selling this, reproduction out of getting status from having found a new way of describing some things, helping
countries ravaged by religion to become civilized (“helping flock-members”)…
These things drive me to do something intellectual. The emotional repertoire – that is to say: the diagrams about the brain – we can look at in the next book, because now we´ve looked at evolution and evolution created the brain so there is a lot of overlap.
Part 3:
The dawn of religion
No-one knows which kind of God emerged first (in protohuman minds). Was it the contemplation on Part 1 of this book (the oneness of Reality and it’s unrepresentability – focusing on the most all-encompassing concept)? Was there a war between two tribes/groups and to avoid soldiers from deserting one’s own group, the priest/king claimed to get his orders from a super-human invisible entity (which “looks better” than a mere human giving orders). Thinking
“they have a superhuman invisible commander while our group is just mere humans” is demoralizing for the group believing that the enemy has something mystical super-human communicating with their leadership. This kind of god is a tool of war. Or was the first God invented in dog-brain sized brains where a simple cortical circuit (the assotiations: the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) lessened anxiety.
We are after-all craving for the approval of “the hierarchical top”, we fear it... we have all kinds of emotions toward it and it can be imagined to love me, to dictate procedures like prayers to me, etc. It’s such a simple cortical circuit to define the hierarchy’s top as “that of which all is part (Reality)” and say that it loves me. That’s basically three concepts (hierarhical top (Reality) protecting me) – and it alliviates anxiety and gets us through dark nights of the soul. For the simple reason that it feels good to activate that circuit we try to “drug ourselves” by activating it over and over, emphasizing our belief in it, teaching it to everybody. The “hierarchical top (defined as Reality) protects me”-emotion
is one of those good feelings that we can activate at will. When we genetically engineer super-positive feelings to be activated by words, those new animals will propably activate their best emotions like a drug-addict seeks drugs – but they can activate it with words.
The circuitry is simple enough and panic attacks are common enough that I think everyone activates that “...protects/loves me”-circuitry during their life-time. Some choose to call it “belief in God”, others “the hierarchical top (defined as that of which all is part) protects me” and others don’t use any words for it because it is as unnoticable as digestion – something that naturally occurs in certain circumstances and one doesn’t need to be arrogant or proud of having that circuitry because it’s like 3-4 concepts (memorizing 4 concepts whom’s associations make us feel better is not a big feat).
Whichever type of God came first is lesser of a question, though, than: is heaven the same thing? Can “heaven” (and “hell”) be interpreted in a way that it makes sense? Heaven is obviously not a location in the sizerange (we don’t move in the sizerange when we die), so is heaven outside the entire theory (and thus “outside” (though this thing has no outside) that of which all is part)? No. Heaven may be synonomous to being good, and not some location in the diagram.
Maybe heaven is what the future genetically engineered super-happy animal will be in all the time.
Summary
Now that we know the three-pillar existential theory (like infinitely many extraterrestrials in infinite space thinks about it), we’ve got the beginning of evolution with a tiny DNA-strand (first reproduction sparking the three first evolutionary rules (1,2,3) and then the 4
th
(power). At the same time we see a continuum all the way to understand religions.
Since the infinitely many extraterrestrials are like us – they share the same logical evolutionary principles in sets following one another along time in a triangle-shape because increasing complexity is shown along the triangle.
It’s not like I don’t sometimes focus on the sentence “top of the hierarchy (defined as that of which all is part) loves and protects me” (“belief in God” in religious language).
Aliens can also prioritize what to focus on; what to take more off and what one wants to take less of. Aliens “judge” us based on principles like maximum happiness for all (animals, all humans), “do onto others like you’d want them do to yourself”. These are simple universal rules that aliens follow to maximize happiness in an otherwise brutal dog-eat-dog world.
What’s worth noticing
in this whole book
is the existential theory which predicts a tiny DNA-strand is more interesting because it is HOW God created the universe, or if you prefer: you remove God and the existential theory rests firmly on its three pillars.
To me, the core of religion seems to be different emotions to and from the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”). The context of course is hierarchical animals which were preceded by group-dwelling animals (we talked about this in part 2 of this book: evolution).
Having a simplistic association of concepts (merely the 3-4
concepts: hierarchical top – defined as that of which all is part – protects/loves/etc me) gives a relief of anxiety, fear, loneliness etc. Having the more complex picture of the same thing – the context surrounding it – makes the whole thing mundane because we realize that “hierarchical top” refers to our wolf-like nature and “that of which all is part” comes as an infinite sizerange.
As I’ve said I agree with the words Soul (true self vs false self; observer of the body in one’s plans vs. the body in one’s plans) and God (defined as “that of which all is part” and synonymous with Reality). But Heaven is a tricker question – what does “heaven” mean? It is obviously no unknown size-range in the infinite sizerange nor a location in space, nor can it be “outside” [that of which all is part]. I acknowledge that believing in heaven gives the same kind of fear-relief as “the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) protects me”, but like I said: I have trouble not being complex and analyzing “the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) protects me” (putting it in it’s sizescalian and evolutionary context), and with “Heaven” I have even more trouble because the single simplest thought ruins that idea. If I were to try to “believe in Heaven” I’d have to focus so hard that my mind doesn’t wander to even the most closely associated or easily retrieved scientific concept (because that destroys heaven). I do believe in doing good out of solidarity, and that doing good will reak its rewards for the millions of coming generations.
So to me Holy Books tend to contain only the following: different emotions to and from the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) , scientific truths like that Reality cannot be seen, heaven & hell and rituals.
Other than material pleasures like humor, I think we can find
condolence
in that being something in nothing with a bleak evolutionary story is more grim than we feel it to be; the truth hurts but not as much as we can feel. We are worse off than we realize and we should be happy we don’t fully feel our meaningless depressing situation which is made sense of in an unintuitive (and thus gives the feeling of confusion) way
(I’m thinking mainly of the three-PILLAR existential theory).
In Holy Books I also tend to find what I’ll relate to you in an anecdote: I was sitting in the back-seat of a car on vacation in a country which I had fallen in love with, whilst winter was raging in my home country. The driver of the car asked if I wanted a hazelnut croissant. I thought what was more important of a topic was for me to whine about that I don’t ever want to leave this country, I want my vacation to last longer, I don’t want to go back to the darkness and snow. So I said “I don’t want to go back to Sweden 🙁 !!” and the driver asked “what does this have to do with the hazelnut croissant?”. I put my answer in a joke: “the connection between the two topics is very deep and significant, but it’s hard to explain: it’s mysterious – and that’s religion.” I tend to find, to say the least, unintuitive associations between concepts in holy books (not meant as jokes).
About Heaven again:
So true justice is impossibly unattainable, which means that this world is inherently unjust?
Yes it's unjust and that seems quite obvious. The other day I heard two people talking: "life can't be this shitty without there being a heaven - there must be a heaven to make life worthwhile", I didn't say anything because their illusion makes them happy but I was thinking: "I am SURE there is no heaven and I can PROVE it scientifically. I even know that the true nature of the situation is worse than we feel it to be (intellectually only can we realize exactly how bleak human life is (and my book is to a large extent so meaninglessness-giving and depressing that one can make jokes out of it)). The only reason to keep living is out of solidarity and because science can create an animal which is 100% happy throughout its lifetime (maybe 100 years from now)."
So heaven was just the divine carrot at the end of the rainbow which acts as a counterweight to the stick that is life?
Do I believe in God, Heaven, The Day of Judgement, etc? As much as I believe that “the top of the hierarchy (defined as “that of which all is part”) protects me” – I use it sometimes. But then if I analyze it, it kindof breaks down: into a donkey with a carrot regarding heaven:
I’m trying to translate all religious concepts (and did well with God and Soul) into scientific language. I can’t do Heaven as a scientific translation except by using this donkey picture – I’m sorry!
The only hope I have of there being a heaven for anyone in the future is that humanity genetically engineers a super-happy animal.
I did well by translating
Soul into scientific language (the body with the plans and the see’er of the body in the plans) and I did well with God (that of which all is part) because it’s one, it can’t be seen,
it’s the cause of everything...
But with Heaven I really can’t do any better than this donkey-picture, and I’m sad about it. I still use the concept Heaven but in the religious way, I don’t use it in the scientific way because it just gets me sad (but it’s funny at the same time).
I “believe in Heaven” in the religious way, but I don’t “believe in Heaven” in the scientific way. Humans are capable of such cognitive dissonance.
Meta-commentary on this book
If the purpose of this book is to unify across religious-differences and build more agreement and thus friendship/trust in the world, then the overall structure of having three parts should remain the same no matter how the course/book is presented:
first
the existential theory because it predicts that there ought to be a tiny DNA-strand somewhere,
then
evolution (because it’s a continuation off of the existential theory/part 1),
then
other thoughts like the circuitry related to religion.
If we focus on ways to teach part 1 of this book (the existential theory), one has three options:
begin from Descartes’ certain truth (I think and I am) and make small logical steps all the way up to anti-distinction (that of which all is part) and how distinction vs. anti-distinction –opposition proves that the sizerange is infinite.
begin from Nothingness (spacetime) which is there “a priori” (needs no prior justification) and is emptier than we can imagine it as. Then state that that spacetime is non-absurd/non-bizarre i.e. that for example the case is not that at one moment 1+1=2, then 1+1=5, then 1+1=241, then 1+1=2 again. 1+1=2 is a law of nature inherent in spacetime, and so is Pythagoras’ theorems about triangles (a triangle is not a sphere because the universe is non-absurd). The laws of nature state
d
so far already hint at Existence (energymass) but E=mc
2
is a law of nature that certainly explicitly requires Energymass. Where is Energymass first summoned? In the smallest spaces, thus we get a dense Big Bang throughout the entire sizerange.
begin with stating the three pillars of the existential theory: (1) an infinite sizerange (2) of energymasspacetime (3) in intertwinedness-separation-opposition.
Including all three ways to begin should convince everyone of that this world-view is valid.
The way I go about teaching this course is universal, and the latest thing I’ve noticed about my course is that the number 3 repeats in many places: there are three ways to start the course (Certain Truth, Nothingness, 3 Pillars of the Existential Theory), the existential theory has 3 pillars, the first evolutionary rules (before power/viruses emerge) are 3.
Extraterrestrials would notice the number 3 popping up all the time too.
The diagram
This is the logotype infinitely many extraterrestrials, basing it off of science, paint on their T-shirts, caps and other merchendize. We’ve already talked about the infinite sizerange and the evolutionary theory (the square and the triangle), but the additional third part aliens would add to the diagram is their diagrams of the brain: the different categories (large or small, 3 of them) of hard-wired circuits:
homeostatic circuits, social/external-circuits and circuitry that gets activated when the two other categories of circuits aren’t active (these are gathering resources, curiosity (expanding one’s world-view), planning how to get power, planning how to get reproduction).
In our planning-system we have serotonine (the red line) and dopamine (the blue line).
The number 3 is a magic number because
there are 3 ways to begin this universal course (nothingness, certain truth or 3 pillars of the existential theory), there are 3 pillars to the existential theory, there are 3 first evolutionary principles and there are 3 categories of evolved brain circuits (social/external, homeostatic and cortex-idle).
3 is the
most
universal digit.
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen, Sweden
War and Boredom
– Religious wars continue because this book isn’t known enough, and it is not known because it is “boring” i.e. causes feelings of meaninglessness, depression etc.
Author
yonis
Posted on
31/12/2016
17/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on War and Boredom
2 Nobel Prizes
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/Untitled-Project2.mp4
Author
yonis
Posted on
12/12/2016
14/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on 2 Nobel Prizes
V 2-4
V2-4
Author
yonis
Posted on
08/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on V 2-4
Existential theory (2)
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/We-are-evolution-2.mp4
Author
yonis
Posted on
07/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Existential theory (2)
Summary in video (10 min)
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/Untitled.mp4
Author
yonis
Posted on
05/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Summary in video (10 min)
Latest version of my book
Warrior of Boredom
The title of this book refers to that it is hard to get through this book. The reason why this new science (that I present in this book) hasn’t been discovered until I did is because it’s depressing, anxiety-giving and BORING. But the question is: does everyone agree on it? If they do, that changes the Israel-Palestine-conflict where the parties of God are vetoing “the holy land”. Religion is the biggest cause for hate in the world, as Hitchens said. My book defeats religion – it’s a minimalist theory that works completely – a theory of Everything: existence (why there is size itself), evolution – even thoughts on the methodology for doing politics.
Philosophy = honor,
but anxiety/depression and boredom. Religion = no honor,
but less anxiety/depression and less boredom.
The big picture, accounting of everything, conflicts with certain positive-thinking brain-tricks and with our bias toward ignoring some negative/depressing aspects of nature.
The first part of this book will be a more detailed discourse about the following paragraph:
Descartes proved that there is distinction (between thinker and thought) - what's the opposite of distinction: "that of which all is part" (Reality). Since we are stuck in Descarte's thinker and thought-realm we can't see Reality, nor can "whatever" not represent it, meaning that there's more to it than can be contemplated/represented. Since all objects we know of fit in a size-time-diagram, this argument must mean that there is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram - and this in turn leads us to an existential theory (a theory about why there is size in the first place).
I realize that’s too fast of a paragraph to convince everyone and thus I want to convince the readers of this book to be warrios or boredom and see all my arguments.
Lecture 1
Descartes
One of the aims of this course is to get EVERYONE to agree so that they have the same associations between scientific concepts.
There is no other proper way to accomplish this goal than by starting with certain truth, which was found by Descartes in the 1600s. He lived in a time where they believed in demons, Gods etc. so he postulated a thought experiment where he assumed an almighty demon was fooling him in everything he could be fooled in: what would remain as certain truth – what could he not be fooled in?
If he was being fooled, where would still be a “he” (or self) there to be fooled, meaning that the self certainly exists. A self is necessary for a self to be fooled.
Descartes had thus concluded his own existence.
Being fooled is thinking – thus thought exists. “There is thought” Descartes concluded as certain truth. The word “fooling” represents a thought-process.
Descartes found the starting-position for any inquiry about truth: we can know certainly that thinker and thought exists.
Distinction exists (a logical conclusion from the above)
Looking at what we´ve found as certain truth so far “from above” (meta), we can take the next logical step – adding a third factoid to our 2-statement (A and B above) starting position: that there is distinction (
between
thinker and thought). The fact that thinker and thought are two separate entities concluded to be certain truth
s
through two
different
logical pathway
s
lets us conclude that “distinction exists”
. There are what Chinese philosophy calls “the ten thousand things” (referring to the world) – there are at least two (three if we include “distinction” as th
e third thing) certain entities, and empirically we know there are “ten thousand things” (not taking the number 10 000 literally but just referring to multiplicity).
First universal diagram
We can draw the thinker and thought and distinction between them as two dots with a line between them on a piece of paper (fig. 1).
Now we have something all religions agree on
– we´ve drawn up ideas and associations between them. Everyone ought to have the same associations (explanatory thoughts) between the concepts we´ve looked at so far.
We have, if you will – in figure 1 – a universal diagram.
Reality
We have the capability to conglomerate many separate entities under the rubric of a single category. If we use this capability to collect the “ten thousand things” (distinct entities) we´ve found so far into a single thing, we ought to give that thing a word/name. Its definition can be “that of which all is part” and “the opposite of separation/distinction”. I will use the word Reality to refer to this all-encompassing thing.
In lecture 2 I will present three proofs for that “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, but for now we can draw (adding to figure 1) a dot with a cross over it – the cross to symbolize that the dot itself is a false representation of Reality because we (the observer/self/thinker) should be part of that dot. See fig 2.
Thinking about what we´ve got so far
Thinking about what we´ve got so far (fig. 2) it’s a bundle of associations which make universal inter-religious (all religions agree on it) knowledge with both words and pictures.
In the next lecture I present why the line in fig 2 (see fig 3) represents the opposition/antagonism/disagreement/contraposition/divergence/variance between the two sides of the paper; between “thinker and thought” on one side of the paper and “Reality (that of which all is part; the opposite of separation)” on the other side of the paper.
Worth noting now is that the left side of the paper represents separation/distinction whilst the right side of the paper represents the opposite of separation/distinction – both are legitimate ideas: thinker and thought – and distinction – is certain truth based on Descartes and we all know which idea we refer to when talking about the all-encompassing [that of which all is part] Reality.
In the next lecture we will talk about why the line in fig. 3 makes it so that we can´t see Reality – I will present three proofs like in a crime case, and we will talk about what we can see if we can´t see Reality.
Making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far
1
See fig. 1 again: it´s our starting-point and the thinking that occurs in it happens in Descartes “realm of mind”; it is the mind´s realm (the left side of the paper) in which the thinking happens, and one thing we talk about is Reality on the right side of the paper in fig 3. Since the line in fig. 3 represents both the legitimacy of the ideas on both sides of the paper, and simultaneously the opposition between separation/distinction (on the left side of the paper) and [the opposite of separation/distinction] on the right side of the paper. That opposition is important and I will show its significance in lecture 2.
2
Starting from Descartes realm (of if you will: assuming that all we know is what we know for certain), we have the capability to state that there is a single Reality of which all is part – so even though we see separation we must grant that that separation (all entities) fits into a category we call Reality. There is a unifying whole even though the human mind (Descartes realm) is limited in its ways when it tries to contemplate Reality.
Not only is there the map-territory distinction (which will be presented as one out of three proofs in lecture 2), but there is also a more fundamental opposition between distinction and its opposite (there is a more fundamental opposition between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3). Not only are we stuck in the map-territory-distinction-realm but we also can conclude that no representation (regardless of the mind) is equal to Reality (on a more fundamental level than the map-territory-problem).
Representation is done in the brain using neurons and in a computer using electrons, but there is no reason why the most distant atom or quark couldn´t be proposed to be a symbol for [that of which all is part] – and even in that brainless scenario we will see in lecture 2 that “that of which all is part cannot be represented”. The map-territory-distinction is just proof/evidence number two in lecture 2 (for that we cannot see Reality and thus, since we do see/represent something, there must be more to Reality than can be represented i.e. the size-time-diagram (presented in lecture
2) is infinite along both axes.
Proof 3 in lecture 2 removes the brain from the equation and still proves that there is more to Reality than can be seen/represented/symbolized (using any means/any method – even without a brain), and since some representation is obviously (since we know that there are minds) possible, there must be more than can be represented/contemplated i.e. the size-axis is infinite and the time-axis is infinite in that two-axis diagram.
3
Both sides of the paper in fig. 3 are legitimate ideas. But still they are opposites (separation on one side and the opposite of separation on the other side). How can two derived-from-logic sides of the paper be opposites but still both be legitimate?
Usually opposition – like between Democrats and Republicans – means that one is right and the other is wrong; they can´t both simultaneously be right: you can´t meaningfully vote for both parties at the same time.
The case is different between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3: both sides are right and they are opposites.
There is a single Reality and there is multiplicity in distinction.
What does this mean? That there is more to the size-time-diagram than anything could represent – any representation fails (you can think of some
examples/suggestions for how to represent [that of which all is part]/[the opposite of separation]) – and thus the axes on the size-time-diagram are infinite. This is a hither to unpresented fact in science – it is new science: some of the best scientists ignorantly believe that the size-range is limited/finite.
4
We have quite a few associations and symbols in fig. 3 which must be agreed upon, and here I´m using the word “must” in the sense that “by the rules of logic X must be true”. Other civilizations throughout the infinitely many galaxies there are use the exact same ideas (but in a different language) and have the same associations between them (that there are infinitely many galaxies is derived from that the size-axis in the size-time-diagram is infinite). There is distinction as the third truth to be added to Descartes two fundamental truths (thinker and thought exist), and all that is opposed to (on the other side of the paper in fig. 3) to the all-encompassing Reality which is defined using at least two definitions: that of which all is part and the opposite of separation.
I´m tri-lingual but I write the same ideas and associate them in the same ways no matter which language I write in – its universal science beginning from certain truth. On other planets that have civilizations my writings in this book ought to match up quite near to the writings creating the same lecture series based on universal science that I´m creating
– “alien”/exo-planet
lecture series proceed, beginning from certain fact, through logical steps as I do.
5
[Thinker and thought] (certain truth) and thus distinction/separation are associated through negation/opposition to the right side of the paper in figure 3: Reality. The left side is not the right side just like separation is not its opposites. Both being legitimate ideas, though, connects them in the way that thinker and thought (and all other distinct entities) are in the category Reality.
Even though Reality and distinction are opposites, distinction dwells in (as a sub-entity within the category) Reality.
The associations between the left and right sides of the paper in figure 3 are both united through the notion “opposition” and through the notion that distinction is inherent in Reality (Reality being the opposite of distinction
because we have all-encompassing and its opposite: composite parts).
6
It is certainly true that all is part of a single Reality; but it is equally true that in every observation there is an observer and hence distinction (between thinker and thought). We see separate entities is as true as that the self that we are is not in front of us – but everything we see (thought/object) is in front of us.
That is evidence 1 in lecture 2 (not a proof, but a mere suggestion/evidence that [that of which all is part cannot be observed] and thus there is more to Reality than our concept of [infinitely much].
All we know about Reality has two properties: a size and a time. Size and time are two axes on a diagram, and thus all we know fits into the size-time-diagram (every object or location in space has a size and time).
There is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram because all suggested representors for Reality fail
(for three reasons taken up in lecture 2).
7
All
bundles of associations in this chapter “making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far”
are written in order to create some universal brain structures (universal because
science is the same everywhere (on all exo-planets), and their brains make the same associations too eventually). It´s not some random bundle of associations nor did I randomly present random ideas.
I assume the brain structure created by understanding this book is a replica of something derived from science; a replica of brain structures on the infinitely many other civilization-bearing planets. It´s a universal “ideology”, if you will.
Everyone has a possibility of sharing it in agreement – and future lectures will add a whole lot of complexity to it; agreement tends to build friendship so study is a way of bringing more peace to the world.
Once the full world-view is presented throughout this book, it´s a way of pacifying the world.
8
We have two brain-halves: one linguistic and one visual. So far we´ve both drawn pictorial representations and connected words – both brain-halves have been working. The connections across corpus collosum (which sits between the brain-halves and connects them) that connect a linguistic narrative/explanation to the pictorial representations are one day found in all humans thanks to science. Our brains are becoming more as science has a propensity to make them be.
This course itself, since it begins with certain truths and builds upon it logically, is a universal course (to the best of my ability).
The brain cells that constitute the negation (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 3) or opposition are not the same kind of cells (they are inhibitory neurons) that connect thinker with though as both being certain truths (but the thinker is not the thought and thus has inhibitory cells making that brain-structure work too
(what you are is not in front of you;
what you are is not visible).
Since both Reality and [what you are]/self/observer/thinker are invisible the brain might erroneously and spontaneously try to associate them, so a brain-structure is needed to inhibit that association (and replace it with a more complex explanation). That spontaneous but erroneous association is something all thinking animals throughout the universe evolved to do, and the inhibition of it through culture/civilizing/science is universally available within complex enough civilizations throughout the universe.
As you can see the brain structures responsible for doing this thing are quite complex, but also universal and thus accessible to all humans, and predictably will someday be in all humans (fostering agreement, thus friendship, thus peace).
Lecture 2
Perceive, apprehend, notice are synonyms for our representing ability, but I will use the word “see” or “observe” to refer to all of these. The goal of this lecture is to prove the statement “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, Reality being defined as “that of which all is part”. In other words: we cannot see Reality, and thus there is more to Reality than even can be contemplated (i.e. infinitely much).
I will build this lecture like a criminal court case: I will present three proofs for that we cannot see Reality i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated i.e. (since we can contemplate anything (right or wrong)) Reality is infinite.
Since anything/everything we know about Reality has some size and time, it fits into a size-time-diagram. See fig. 4.
In fig. 4 size is represented along the vertical axis and time along the horizontal axis. The objects humans see in everyday life (from the horizon to a single cell as one “pixel” in our visual field) are marked in “the human range”.
See fig 5.
In fig. 5 I´ve drawn the same diagram as in fig. 4 but this time with infinity-symbols in each corner of the squareical size-time-diagram. Two infinite axes become a square.
Proof number 3 in our “court case” for proving that the size-time-diagram (Reality) is infinite has us imagine the unobservable separatenessless Reality and ask whether there is a maximum or minimum size to/in it (a maximum/minimum being separateness while we are talking about the opposite of separation). This is again to confirm that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes.
The line we drew in fig. 4 was for separating the two sides of the paper; opposing “thinker and thought” (distinction) with its opposite: one all-encompassing non-distinction Reality. That opposition-line is what this lecture is about since it proves that the two sides of the paper are
separate/opposing realms and we are stuck in one realm as long as we are observers (because observation is separation/distinction (thinker and thought)).
Proving that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes is new science because it poses the question: what happened before the Big Bang (14 billion years ago), and it presents one pillar of our existential theory: that each size is the reason for each next and previous size, and the size axis is infinite, meaning the “beginning” of the relationship between sizes keeps retreating into infinity the more we contemplate the range of the size axis.
When I presented fig. 4 for the first time I drew a cross over the dot symbolizing Reality for the plain reason that we (as observers) should be part of that dot, and by the very nature of us being separate (and the dot representing the opposite of separation) we should draw a cross over it symbolizing that we cannot see it.
The main proof though is that even if all observers were dead there´d still be, inherent and fundamental in nature, the opposition between distinction and distinction´s opposite (the two sides of the paper in fig. 4). The line is an opposition-line and it is more fundamental than being dependent on humans/observers – it refers to all representation whether it’s using/including humans or not. I am, in other words, not talking about the map-territory distinction (which symbolizes that humans have mental maps and not the real world per se; like Kant said: we have “the thing” and not “the thing itself”). Proof 2 – the opposition-line between the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 – is not subjective: it is true that we live with the map-territory-distinction but even if I died there´d still be separate things (chairs separate from cups), that kind of separation is not dependent on me/observers. Simultaneously the flipside of the coin (the other side of the paper in fig. 4) is true too: all is one single Reality (the opposite of separation). Proof 2, in other words, should not be interpreted as signifying the map-territory distinction (human subjectivity) but instead a fundamental opposition in the universe.
If we do not see Reality, then what do we see? Everything we see fits into the size-time-diagram, and since the opposition-line in fig. 4 shows that there is a fundamental rule that states, in 3 different proofs, that Reality is infinite / there is more than can even be contemplated / there is more than even non-subjective representation can represent.
Proof number 1 is really weaker than a “proof” – it´s more like evidence. It wouldn´t hold up in a court but it is a way of stating what the other proofs too point towards. Proof 1 is what we saw when presenting figure 4: any dot representing Reality is an incorrect representation because the observer should be part of the object – the thinker should be part of the thought. It denies Cartesian separation and thus is untrue, meaning that anything we draw on the right side of the paper in fig. 4 is incorrect.
We can contemplate anything: we can speculate about what´s smaller than quantum physics, or even what´s smaller than that, etc. into infinity. We are probably wrong, but any contemplation/representation counts as a contemplation – and since we know that, whether right or wrong as our contemplations may be, there is more to Reality than can be contemplated, it follows that there must be infinitely much to Reality. Since all we know about Reality fits into a size-time-diagram, the minimalist approach is to state that it´s the size-time-diagram that is infinite.
This warrants two new words: the knowable/known size-range and the infinite size-range. The knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range. Since Einstein unified space (size) and time, one cannot be infinite without the other one being the same. Science today doesn´t know whether there was a “before” to the Big Bang or not (whether time was created at the Big Bang), but now we know that the Big Bang is just an event on an infinite time axis. In a future lecture we will talk about how/why the Big Bang recreates (happens over and over).
We talked about universal diagrams (and universal brain-structures) in lecture 1. The size-time-diagram is one major universal diagram. A lot of detail can be added to it because all fields of science fit into it. The infinity-symbols on each axis of the squareical diagram are drawn, based on science, on exo-planets with advanced enough civilizations.
This lecture is about proving that [that of which all is part] (the opposite of separation) i.e. Reality cannot be observed/represented, and that this fact is true irrespective of whether we are observers or dead, and applying this to the size-time-diagram (which gets its infinity-symbols into the squareical diagram).
Proof number 2 (the main proof) is the oppositional approach between Reality and distinction, and it is not subjective because Reality and Reality´s opposite exist even if we were dead. Proof number 3 is about imagining (even though no imagination is it) Reality as a big gray (because energymass is white and spacetime is black) solid, in which we know no observer should be (because observation is separation) – does it have separation i.e. a biggest and a smallest size? No, because such distinctions are not in the opposite of distinction (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 4).
I´ve mentioned universal associations in the brain / exo-planet science, so talking about the size-time-diagram we can add more universal notions to it: why did I draw upwards on the size axis as larger and downward as smaller? Why is the time-axis horizontally drawn instead of vertically? The diagram works even if we would define the vertical axis as time and the horizontal axis as size – so why do we draw size vertically and time horizontally? Is it universal i.e. on other planets or just a human convention like writing from left to right in English-speaking countries and right to left in Arabic-speaking countries?
Evolution has it so that during the history of science telescopes look upward and microscopes look downward. This would be the case on other planets too: they turn their heads upward to see the large and downward (onto a table) to see the small; the opposite can´t be true on any planet. Thus we get the size axis´ standard (of upward being larger) from evolution / the history of science. I use the word “standard” because it comes from evolution rather than being more fundamentally hard-wired into the universe such as the fact that the size-time-diagram is a square with infinity symbols. That the size-time-diagram is a square is not a standard – it is something stronger than that. The fact that we represent time on the vertical axis (and upward as larger) comes from a weaker source: tradition (even though that same tradition is true on all planets; evolution, in this regard, happens the same on all planets that end up with civilizations).
We thus have added standards or weak conventions (derived from history) in addition to having strong diagrams like the size-time-diagram being a square. The distinction between the two is made based on science and is thus made on exo-planets.
Scientists are looking for exo-planets that bear civilizations. If the size-range is infinite – as we´ve proven that it is – then each particular size (like the human range in fig. 5) is infinite too; if the largest is infinitely large then there is, considering the size of a human, an infinite distance in any direction that that human could find itself in. This makes civilizations on other planets a must, not an assumption. The known/knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range, and within the known size-range there is a range in which evolution occurs (between the smallest cells and the biggest organisms), and since we´ve proven that there are infinitely many objects within/of that size-range, then there must be infinitely many locations in which evolution occurs.
In the next lecture we will bind together the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 (distinction and distinction´s opposite; “thinker and thought” opposing Reality) with E=mc
2
(energymasspacetime) and with the infinity of the size-time axes, into a single existential theory which is a rival to “God created earth in 6 days…” The existential theory is a minimalist account for why there is a sizescale in the first place, and why there is something (energymass) rather than nothing (spacetime). It reminds me of this passage: “HITCHENS: In other words, as the great physicist Laplace said when he demonstrated his working model (his orrery, as it’s called) of the solar system to the emperor and Napoleon said, “Well I see there’s no God in this system,” and Laplace said, “Well, Your Majesty, it works without that assumption.””
In this chapter I´ve presented three proofs for that the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in it i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated; we do represent something but however we choose to represent (even representations that can be proposed as thought-experiments if we were dead) we do not represent Reality i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality. Are there any counter-arguments saying that the size-time-diagram is finite? I built this lecture like a court case and I´d like to hear the opposing side. There are no arguments that oppose what I´ve proven so far.
Lecture 3
E=mc
2
E=mc
2
as an equation is only used in relativistic scenarios such as very high speed or very high energy, but since speed is a continuum the equation is true at slower speeds. There is a difference between the equation being applicable (being needed while solving equations) and it being true; it is always true everywhere but it is not needed for equations except in special scenarios.
An example of the equation being true everywhere and always is this: nuclear power-plants turn mass (kilograms) into energy (joule), so that if you input 1 kg of uranium-mass you get out 99.9999 kg of waste products – some of the mass turned into energy which lights our light-bulbs. The atoms that lost some weight (that weight was converted into energy) are atoms just like other kinds of atoms, for example in autumn leaves. If you´d drop leaves into the core of the sun, the sun´s nuclear furnace would turn mass in the leaves into energy (light). Hence all objects are subject to the E=mc
2
-rule, which states that energy (E) equals mass (m). This warrants the word energymass because they are no longer two distinct things – they are but different manifestations of the same thing. In the brain
energymass should be a single idea whilst the concepts “energy and mass” refers to two different forms of a single idea.
Verbs and adjectives tend to refer to energy (shining, running, etc.) while nouns refer to mass (body, tree, etc.) E=mc
2
states that the two (verbs/adjectives and nouns) are together in a single equation. Although only applicable in relativistic scenarios (the role of relativism becomes close to zero in everyday human events, except that our light-bulbs shine because mass turns into energy and the sun can makes leaves into light), E=mc
2
is in a “philosophical” sense true everywhere and always just like Pythagoras’s theorem about triangles remains “philosophically true” even where there are no physical triangles. You wouldn´t say 1=1 is not true in empty space just because there are no objects there to count as “1”.
In addition to energymass being a single concept (and not two distinct ones), spacetime gets added into the mix by the c
2
-part of the equation. c is the speed of light (km/h) and thus a distance (space) over time – spacetime! Energymass (E=m) and spacetime (c
2
) should in the brain be represented by a single idea which we can call energymasspacetime. This harkens back to the previous lectures about Reality, which is a synonym for energymasspacetime. Einstein invented the equation E=mc
2
and thus unified in it energymass with spacetime – and synonyms for energymass are “existence” or “1” while synonyms for spacetime are “non-existence”, “emptiness”, “nothing” and “zero”. There is no more to be considered regarding Reality than energymasspacetime; energymasspacetime involves everything (energymass) and nothing (spacetime) so there is nothing more to be considered/added to Reality – Reality is energymasspacetime; everything is included into Reality once we have defined Reality as energymasspacetime.
The Existential Theory
Each culture seems to have a creation myth (such as genesis) – the creation of the cosmos/world/Reality is something humans have invented hypotheses for during millennia. The stories answer the question “why are we here?”
The true answer is unintuitive. First of all: why is there any particular size? What justifies, say, the size of a molecule? The answer is: the smaller and the larger (the rest of the size-range). Atoms justify a molecule and a molecule exhibits a place for atoms to live in: justifies atoms. Humans need an earth to dwell on (the earth is larger) and humans are made of cells (cells are smaller). Each size bears a relationship upon each other size – the smaller justify the larger and the larger justify the smaller. Since the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all four corners of the square (because of the proof where we had two sides of a paper), the size-range is infinite i.e. the pattern of justification between/amongst sizes continues into the infinitely large and infinitely small. What the ancients called “the first cause” keeps retreating into infinity size-wise the more we contemplate it. The size-range is like a fractal: you can keep zooming in or out infinitely much, and the question “why is there this particular object that I see” has its answer in the relationship between all the sizes: justification. Infinite justification is the reason why there is a size-range at all. But there is more that is needed for a full-fledged existential theory: two more factors play their roles.
Spacetime is emptier than we can imagine/represent it. We (and all representeurs) are energymass and thus are the opposite of spacetime. We could let a piece of empty space represent spacetime, but as soon as we use energymass (such as our brains) to do so, we´ve lost the truly empty nature of
spacetime: it is unimaginably empty. Any bundle of neurons, no matter how we wire it, is still the opposite of what they want to represent when they want to present us with spacetime. It is therefore useful to have two concepts for spacetime: (1) our simplest intuition of spacetime and (2) additional defining language explaining that spacetime is emptier than (1). This is how exoplanet civilizations would wire their brains regarding the concept “spacetime” too, just because it’s the most accurate science they can manage.
Just like energy and mass are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon, energymass and spacetime are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon. What does it mean for spacetime to be bundled together with (intertwined with) energymass? Everything exists as/in/because of nothing; 1 exists in 0; energymass and spacetime are together in the E=mc
2
-equation. Where could energymass/existence exist? In nothingness. Just like sizes justify one another, spacetime justifies energymass.
The last question that remains, after we have justification between sizes in an infinite size-range, and that all points in the size-time-diagram are made of energymasspacetime (and energymass is justified by it being in spacetime), is the objective fact that there both is a single Reality (the right side of the paper) and there´s its opposite: distinction (between, say, thinker and thought).
The existential theory builds on three “pillars”/fundamental ideas:
An infinite sizescale,
Energymasspacetime as in the equation E=mc
2
Distinction between distinction itself and distinction´s opposite (see fig. 1, 2, 3):
Between distinction (the left side of the paper, our 2 certain truths: I exist and there is thought) and Reality (the opposite of distinction; one Reality (not plural)) there is a line that demarcates distinction/opposition.
Putting it all into one phrase we might say: “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime with opposition between distinction and Oneness”. At its core it´s three ideas (infinite size-time-diagram, energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
), separation and intertwinedness (the two sides of the paper)). On exoplanets they would state their reason for their own existence using these three ideas too, because taken together they explain all that needs to be explained: first thing that comes to mind is that in the stated existential theory there must be a reproducing shape (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape; a DNA-strand) somewhere. If the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all three corners, then evolution ought to occur somewhere (and be made of energymass in spacetime, while being separate/distinct in a single intertwined Reality).
Most creation-myths have a quite simple (one-pillared) and mundane story: for example genesis just states that God created Reality (that of which all is part) in 6 days and rested on the 7
th
. The scientific rival to all such creation stories is a three-pillared theory – we can´t make it any simpler (we can´t make it one-pillared) and the same would be the case on exoplanets: they too can only break it down to three interconnected ideas/pillars/fundaments, so in thinking this way we share a common intellectual history with exoplanet civilizations advanced enough to figure out this existential theory.
On a test on this subject a question might be: “what are the three pillars of the existential theory?” – the question can´t be “what is the most important pillar in the existential theory?” All pillars are equally important but constitute as distinct ideas as E=mc
2
is from infinite size, or the separation-intertwinedness-opposition (fig. 3).
This three-pillared creation story – the sum of these three chapters – is built upon logic: it includes certain truths like “I think and I exist” (distinction/separation), its opposite (Reality for which we have three proofs for that it can´t be observed/seen/contemplated i.e. the size-time-diagram is infinite), E=mc
2
which unifies nothing/spacetime with existence/energymass, and the relationship between any two sizes (justification along the infinite size-range). Every one of these ideas relates very closely to Descartes´ certain truth, meaning we can be sure of the ideas themselves – and they together build up a minimalist existential theory which needs no further logic to explain everything there is.
Having an infinite size-range has a predictive quality to it too – it makes a prediction: there ought to be evolution (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar mass) somewhere in the diversity we see throughout even the known size-range.
Though as non-intuitive as the 3-pillar existential theory may be to our evolved brains who want a single conclusion, exoplanet civilizations have the same limits and biases as us: they too are stuck with three pillars in a single theory to make the theory explainable. Science is creating universal (exoplanet) neural pathways in our brains. We should embrace the fact that by being non-intuitive but true, this science wires our brain based on science and thus universally. It is the way (the wiring) that all planets are headed to if they´re into science. It´s a universal world-view. We´re thinking like aliens.
In current scientific debates the religious will argue that faith (in a dogma) is needed to (what they call) “understand” the existence of the universe. If confronted with my theory (these lectures) they´d have to agree that logic makes their God unnecessary as a pillar of creation. In the best case scenario God is simply a synonym for Reality (because Reality is “that of which all is part” and thus God ought to be part of it too, and all we know about Reality is that it is energymass in spacetime and separation in intertwinedness).
Having an explanation – the negative side of it is it being three-pillared and unintuitive, the positive side of it being that it accounts for all of Reality and predicts evolution – further justifies the saying “a God of the gaps” (meaning the more we understand the less we need God). Now all that remains to be understood – again in an unintuitive but identical to exoplanets -way – is how, on an infinite time-line, the Big Bang (denseness) recreates and fades away into sparseness (black holes removing energymass and dark energy creating more space until no galaxies are anymore visible).
Lecture 4
The beginning of the Big Bang
I have a hard time imagining how the universe can reach complete emptiness, but it wouldn´t be the first time the universe´s nature surpasses human intuition. In the history of science stars were observed to not move relative to one another on the night sky, and this was argued to prove that the size of the universe was much smaller than the now known size – it was argued that the universe would be “unreasonably big” if the stars didn´t seem to move relative to one another as the earth moved because they were so far away.
If only enough time is needed for the universe to become empty, then we get the starting scenario which is most reasonable: we start with emptiness (spacetime). Again, spacetime is emptier than our concept for it because we (and our concepts) are made of energymass.
If you move your hand one meter (from position 1 to position 2), the laws of nature that make your hand make sense were already in place in the space of position 2 before you moved your hand there. It´s not like the universe/spacetime was absurd in location 2 and only started to make sense regarding hands when you moved your hand there. We do not impact the laws of nature in such ways; instead the laws of nature are simultaneously and equally true at all locations and all times. In other words: Pythagoras’s theorem is true even in locations where there are no objects whatsoever, but the theorem is only applicable (to be applied) to triangles. In empty space there are no objects and thus no triangles, but Pythagoras´s theorem is true there anyhow – it does not suddenly become true (switch from being untrue to true) when a triangle is imagined or physically moved there. This applies to E=mc
2
too, which is just as much of a law of nature as Pythagoras´s theorem. E=mc
2
is true everywhere and always, though humans only apply (use) the equation in certain scenarios. Where triangles can be (in spacetime) there is also E=mc
2
. Laws of nature are fundamental and inherent in spacetime and do not come about depending on events (though our application/use of any particular equation is dependent on which event we´re analyzing).
There is distinction between the practical use of equations (to solve problems or understand a phenomenon) and the core nature of spacetime having laws of nature in it. Spacetime is a no-nonsense spacetime – we live in a rational (laws of nature-abiding) universe.
One law being E=mc
2
and another one being “if it is said it must exist” (meaning energymass can´t be mentioned in the laws of nature of spacetime without energymass existing), we get spacetime to summon energymass if the starting-point was complete emptiness. “If energymass is mentioned it must be summoned” (it is mentioned in E=mc
2
) is true because it would be a nonsense universe if it “talks” about energymass without there being any – just infinite space for eternity with laws of nature regarding energymass, but never any energymass appearing/being present. It would be a nonsense universe if energymass it mentioned but never exists. It would be akin to the universe telling lies (having all these rules like E=mc
2
but never applying them to anything), or the universe babbling gibberish (having inapplicable laws of nature).
Thus, E=mc
2
being a core property of spacetime itself and the “no gibberish”-rule applying, energymass must logically be summoned – but how and where? Extremely dense i.e. everywhere, in the smallest spaces, simultaneously. Why? Our starting-point is spacetime, which needs no prior justification because it is the opposite of existence: it doesn´t exist – it is emptier than our neurons make it out to be. In it Einstein´s theory of relativity is true, meaning that there is no center point (or in other words: all points are the center) so there is no center to the Big Bang. Another way of seeing it is that as soon as there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification), E=mc
2
became true in all locations (in the smallest spaces) simultaneously – no point in space was before another in having E=mc
2
be true in it. Spacetime having E=mc
2
as a core property has E=mc
2
be true everywhere simultaneously; once we have the launching-condition of empty spacetime, through E=mc
2
, energymass is summoned everywhere simultaneously.
This “everywhere” is all things within an event horizon, meaning that things moving away faster than the speed of light (due to dark energy/accelerating cosmic expansion) are not within our event
horizon: they are not part of what can be reasonably called “our 3-dimensional space” (from our location). Things are not part of our universe once their speed hits faster than the speed of light – and many locations, within the boundaries of their respective event horizons, will one day have all energymass moving away from them at speeds faster than the speed of light (this is just the observed fact of accelerating cosmic expansion). Such a finite space with no energymass within its event horizon (all energymass moving away faster than the speed of light) would constitute “completely empty space” i.e. our starting-point for the Big Bang (energymass being summoned due to E=mc
2
).
Consider an infinite size-range - it is made of energymasspacetime: if we draw it as the Y-axis on a diagram, there can´t be a region/length in it (such as the knowable size-range) which is completely empty forever. See fig. 6.
Because of the rules E=mc
2
and “if it is mentioned it must be summoned”/”no-nonsense universe” are true throughout the infinite size-range, there can´t be a region with just spacetime (with its laws of nature) because the laws of spacetime mention energymass; spacetime is inherently tied to and intertwined with energymass – existence and non-existence go together (at all sizes). There would be no logical breaking-point (a particular size) where energymasspacetime transitions into being just spacetime for a range of sizes and then transitions back into energymasspacetime; there is no logical breaking-point where the implications of E=mc
2
(the implication being: energymass and spacetime are in the same equation) stop to be true. The transition seen in fig. 6 is impossible (there is no “empty region”). Having an empty region would be akin to zooming into the decimals of pi and seeing no numbers for a specific array of decimals: 3.14159ÄÄÄÄ265359... The Ä´s can´t be there: it´s a continuous sequence of decimal numbers. There is no break/”empty region” in the continuous decimals of pi just as there is no region of the size-range that can be empty of energymass.
In this chapter I´ve written something akin to “
first
there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification unless you consider that the size-axis of the size-time-diagram is infinite),
then
there was E=mc
2
,
then
there was energymass summoned into the smallest spaces available (available = considered to be within an event horizon and empty)”. This harkens back to previous lectures´ talk about “alien logic” (how exoplanets think). To have it make sense to our brains we use the time-
distinctions “first, then and then” but the real distinction is not in time but in steps in a sequence of logic. In other words all the mentioned steps happened simultaneously to start the Big Bang: E=mc
2
was true as soon as there was spacetime, and as soon as there was that, energymass appeared as not to make the universe absurd (by it talking gibberish or it having an empty region like in fig. 6).
The end of the Big Bang
Telescopes observe that “space is being born” i.e. that the distances between clumps of energymass (galaxies) are getting larger, and at an accelerating pace too. Not only does the Hubble law state that an object a
million light
-
years
away would be receding from us at 21 km/sec and at double the distance twice the speed, but the law states that that speed (for example 21 km/sec a million light years away) is increasing. This is called accelerating cosmic expansion. It means that from our galaxy, when/if we look into the sky trillions of years in the future, we´d see no trace of any other galaxy let alone the cosmic microwave background (because their speeds have passed the speed of light and thus went beyond the event horizon). Once that object a million light years away from us which today is racing away at 21 km/sec reaches 299792 km/sec (the speed of light), it will pass from being within our event horizon to being outside our sphere of events.
This empties our universe or as Hitchens put it: “nothingness is coming”. Once that nothingness comes we have our starting point where we run through the logic of E=mc
2
–> “if it is mentioned it must exist/be summoned” (in order for the universe not to talk gibberish or the infinite size-range not to have a break in it) –> energymass begins as dense (because of relativity and because E=mc
2
is true everywhere simultaneously/equally).
We observe that nothingness (within event horizons) is coming, and beginning from nothingness there is unintuitive logic that has a predictive quality to it: the Big Bang should start dense. This theory works well with lecture 2´s proofs for that “there is more to Reality than can be represented” (the size-time-diagram is infinite) because size is essentially space, and space and time are intertwined into a single spacetime – hence: if size/space is infinite then time must be infinite too. In other words we have reoccurring Big Bangs interspersed along the time-axis of our size-time-diagram. As soon as a region bound by an event horizon becomes empty we have the universe´s no-nonsense-laws kicking in and E=mc
2
summons energymass (in the smallest sizes that are empty equally/simultaneously).
The sequence of consecutive Big Bangs´ beginnings (emptiness leading to energymass being summoned) and ends (accelerating cosmic expansion speeding things past a point´s event horizon and emptiness being summoned) are as infinite as the time-axis proved to be based on lecture 2´s proofs. Proving (in lecture 2) that spacetime is infinite fits perfectly with the reoccurring Big Bangs (when somethingness becomes emptiness and then emptiness summons somethingness).
There will in other words, between the beginning of a Big Bang and the end of that same Big Bang, be life within the conscious/human size-range (the different locations of that size already being infinitely many, see fig. 4).
Each size along the size-axis is defined as “3-dimensional infinite space” meaning there is infinitely much life with access to universal science (i.e. some version of this lecture-series), and within our region (bound by an event horizon) there is life between the beginning and end of Big Bangs. In addition I have hard to believe that a reproducing shape (and thus evolution) only occurs in only
one
size-range (the, for humans, knowable size-range) in an infinite size-range: there ought to be many sub-size-ranges as part of the infinite size-range where evolution occurs and can reach scientific knowledge. All life mentioned above, if they reach scientific understanding, would concur on the existential theory presented in these lectures (especially lecture 3 – the three pillars/foundations/ideas which together become a minimalist theory for why there is the infinite size-range of energymasspacetime in the first place).
This is not only exoplanet science – it is science between Big Bangs and it is science in regions of the size-axis far away (in size) from our knowable size-range. See fig. 7.
Summary
First we looked at Descartes’ ”thought exists” and ”the self exists”, claimed that it was two valid statements and pointed out the distinction between them. On the other side of the paper we wanted to represent anti-distinction (the opposite of distinction) defined as “that of which all is part” (Reality), and realized that since thinker/thought is stuck on the left side of the paper we can’t represent Reality. This is not only Kant’s “the thing is not the thing itself (the mental map is not the real territory)” but more importantly whatever cannot be taken to represent “that of which all is part” i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality.
All we know about Reality (atoms, humans, galaxies) fit into a size-time-diagram (every object has a size and a time), so the minimalist approach combining the above paragraph with this one is to use the first paragraph to prove that the size-time diagram has infinite
axes. This in turn leads to an existential theory which can be summed up as “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime” – and it has a predictive quality to it: somewhere in such an existence there would be a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape and thus we get reproduction/evolution.
So far we’ve looked at the theory of why size itself exists, why there is something rather than nothing – an existential theory beginning from certain truth and logically building its way up all the way to predicting evolution.
Part 2: Evolution
My explanation of evolution focuses on how important disease and bullying (power) was for evolution.
Power
means that
fish
were
fighting fish breeding more agressive fish = dinosaurs, then wolfpacks with an alpha male.
But even before and after those eras in evolution the rule of power was in play.
In part one we had an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime (including the intertwinedness-separation-opposition and the time-axis with repeating Big Bangs perpendicular to the size-axis) that predicts a reproducing shape i.e. a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape: reproduction in an infinite size-range.
This infinite size-range predicts reproduction.
Part one was about why there is a sizescale of energymasspacetime: the answers are that the sizescale is infinite and that energymass is in spacetime. It predicts that there should be a reproducing shape: say that it is a triangle which gathers surrounding lines into a similar triangle – then it has reproduced itself. The products of this reproduction obey three rules: directly when there was reproduction three rules came into play, I´ve listed them below as 1, 2, 3 but they are not in order (they came simultaneously):
1:
There is life and death: those who survive survive and those who die are not in the game anymore. “The surviving survive”. It´s so simple – we see it in everyday life today. But everything in evolution will come back to these three rules so we might as well do the banal and bring them up.
So directly when there was a reproducing shape - so in our part of the size-range a DNA-strand which split in the middle and became two DNA-strands – the copy either survived or died.
2: The second rule is that the number of offspring has significance. That is to say: if you get one child or five children or ten children, there is a difference between those numbers – and in evolution it´s a benefit to have more children. One can also have zero children, and that is approximately like being dead.
Some would say that evolution´s meaning (the main task of life) is to make more offspring – that it´s the scientific meaning of life – Nature´s meaning: to reproduce. But I would answer that evolution makes more offspring (that´s reproduction) and making more offspring gives evolutionary benefits, but Nature itself does not care – it does not care about whether we nuke ourselves or not. There is no God that looks upon us and cares. Even reproduction becomes meaningless in the larger perspective. But in evolution it has significance whether one has zero offspring or ten offspring.
Rule number two (number of offspring matters) just as simple as rule number 1 (that there is life and death; that some live and some die).
The third rule that appered... – well all three rules appeared simultaneously directly when there was reproduction in this sizerange. The third rule is that:
3: There is mutation in every generation-shift. Things change. It doesn’t make perfect copies. Your child (if you have one) is not an exact copy of yourself or your wife – it’s a mutation; a change.
These three rules – 1: that there is life and death, the surviving survive. 2: That there are different nuances in the number of offspring. 3: That there is mutation in every generation-shift – these three rules came into play directly when the first reproduction occurred. We will return to these three rules over and over again; they are like laws of nature that like God says shall work on life directly when the first life reproduces itself. These laws of nature didn’t exist before the first life reproduced itself – they were not active then. They became active directly when there was reproduction.
These are abstract laws that we will manufacture, then we have the physical reality of that in a puddle of water a strand of DNA – a cell – made copies/offspring. Then viruses came into the game and injected its own DNA into the ordinary cells, that is to say: hijacked their reproductive system to create virus-offspring. If this would´ve continued the ocean would´ve been filled with only viruses, so there has to be some next step which made it so that our type of life survived. But the viruses added a 4
th
law (one of these abstract laws)
and that is: if you can hijack someone else’s reproductive system to create your own offspring; if you can inject your DNA into somebody else´s cell so that it creates viruses – I call this “power”. We will return to this word when we for example look at dinosaurs (they became bigger because the men killed each other to get the women whom make offspring). This power-principle was one that came after the three first ones.
The first cells reproduced and we had these three rules, then viruses came and injected their DNA and used “power” to produce more viruses. Then we get an immune-system which kills viruses i.e. protects the original organism´s reproductive system from being hijacked by viruses. So the immune-system evolved to take back the reproductive principle (2: the number of offspring matters); for the fact that one should retain the reproductive capability for oneself – so that no virus can take it over. So power has a lot to do with the number of offspring – principle 4 has a lot to do with principle 2.
We have multicellular organisms with immune-systems, we have viruses around them – and it´s an arms-race between that the viruses mutate to overcome the immune-system and the immune-
system mutates to overcome the virus. Thus we have an evolutionary pressure on mutating the immune-system as much as possible as fast as possible (because the viruses mutate very quickly), and the best way to do that is to combine genes from two different organisms: a man and a woman. So sex has its beginning in viruses.
If this doesn´t make you feel comfortable contemplate this: the truth outweighs positive-thinking. But does one want to remove whatever spreads joy among people? Those who want to defeat the religious violence in the world (I think religion is the biggest unnecessary cause of hatred in the world) – one cannot defeat that without defeating all religiousness simultaneously. To want to defeat one part of religion but not the rest of it is like voting for the Republicans and Democrats simultaneously – it´s just unreal. Sadly one must remove the good to remove the evil. Meditation still remains and one can get a kind of anxietylessness from some thoughts still but in the big picture there are no reasons that support them anymore – it´s just a brain-trick that one does.
In our evolutionary story we had an immune-system which mutates, wants more mutations – we get two genders. Then men begin to war with each other (because, metaphorically speaking, women can produce offspring once a year while men can produce it every day – we have an imbalance; asymmetry). Why is it always men that start wars? It began with the first fish – we had multicellular life in our story so far, so they became a bit bigger, could swim around – we get fish: it´s easier to find food then and easier to move around. Directly when there were two genders there was one fish which evolved to use its teeth for killing other male fish. The first aggressor of course got the most offspring because there were no other men around. That´s why men go to war: they can produce offspring with so many women while a woman has no benefit from having 1000 men.
There´s a caveat to
this once we get to caveman tribes/wolf-packs where a woman secretly wants many men to provide resources to her child, but at least in the era between fish and dinosaurs the picture was simply based on asymmetric reproductive rates.
So then the male fish grow more aggressive, the child who is the biggest and has the sharpest teeth kills the other male fish, has the most offspring; and in the next generation, again: the child with the most aggression and biggest muscles gets the most offspring – that´s how we get to dinosaurs and T-rex. We had males competing/fighting with each other and that´s why T-rex is so large. That is, again, the power-principle: just like viruses took over the reproductive system from the first cells, T-rex takes away the reproductive system from his rivals by killing them. So this principle number 4 (power) lives on – it has caused/causes so much: it causes the first viruses, it causes T-rex, that fish become aggressive, that we get two genders (by viruses getting power – so we wanted to counter that power by immune-systems i.e. two genders).
These dinosaurs then, just like humans don´t seem to have (sarcasm), any concept of preserving natural resources – so they would´ve eaten up all their trees and not had any food left. But on our planet it seems to have been a meteor-strike which wiped them out, but on exoplanets i.e. overall in this evolutionary series of evolutionary pressures causing various principles (first the three first principles, then the 4
th
principle, immune-systems, two-genderedness, bigger
fish, fights between the fish, dinosaurs). The dinosaurs ate their natural resources and all large life dies - so only small rat-like/squirrel-like life-forms live on.
The trees grow back up – we get monkeys.
Groups tend to, in a fight – if it´s a group against an individual (one against many) – the group tends to win. So we monkeys form groups, fighting together for food against individualists. The individualists lost.
So we got this - or had it from the get-go (just like with the first aggressors) – instinct that makes us want to be highest in the hierarchy and thereby get all the women. Power again. But this time it´s a kind of human power – we saw power when viruses took over the reproductive systems, we saw power when dinosaurs outcompeted their rivals (the men), we see power when a bully goes to the top of the hierarchy, pushes down the other men – and the women want the bully´s resources (he has the most stuff) so they´re attracted to him, so he gets the most offspring – out of his offspring the one that is best at getting power the one that gets most offspring.
The reason for why the brain grew so fast during the past 100 000 years was because we used the brain to plan for how to climb upward in the hierarchy. The reproductive benefits coming from being high-status in the hierarchy were so great comparing to being low-status that this put great selection-pressure on bigger brains.
Now we basically have caveman living in hierarchical societies, we have kings, aristocrats and slaves – and that is how the world was 5000 years ago. The kings build monumental architecture (pyramids and such). Then someone focused on a random word – so someone focused on what we talked about in part 1: Reality (that of which all is part) and realized one cannot see it (because we should be part of it, or the other two proofs for not being able to see all there is to Reality) and thus they invented the word God: it is one, one cannot see it – we have the dawn of monotheism.
Someone random-focused on the word “soul/self” too and realized one gets less anxiety by making a distinction between the body
one sees in ones imaginations
21.12
Author
yonis
Posted on
30/11/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Latest version of my book
Del 2: Evolutionsteorin
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/del2-interse-evolution.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
14/11/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Del 2: Evolutionsteorin
Posts navigation
Page
1
Page
2
Next page
Search for:
Search
Recent Posts
Talet 3
Sammanfattning universell kurs interse 11-01-2017
From Certain Truth to Dinosaurs (with Maan and Marwan)
War and Boredom
2 Nobel Prizes
Recent Comments
Archives
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
January 2016
Categories
Dagbok
Old
The book + diagrams
Trashcan
Trey
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.org
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Proudly powered by WordPress

Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen – Everyone needs to know the basics
Skip to content
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Everyone needs to know the basics
Talet 3
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/talet-3.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
17/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Talet 3
Sammanfattning universell kurs interse 11-01-2017
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/sammanfattning-universell-kurs-interse-11-01-2017.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
11/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Sammanfattning universell kurs interse 11-01-2017
From Certain Truth to Dinosaurs (with Maan and Marwan)
Author
yonis
Posted on
05/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on From Certain Truth to Dinosaurs (with Maan and Marwan)
War and Boredom
War-and-Boredom
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen, Sweden
1
War and Boredom
The title of this book refers to that it is hard to get through this book. The reason why this new science (that I present in this book) hasn’t been discovered until I did is because part 1 of this book gives a sense of meaninglessness toward the Universe and part 2 deals with evolution in a depressing way because the main trend is “power”.
Writing it gave me anxiety and reading it gives many people anxiety.
But the question is: does everyone agree on it? If they do, that changes the Israel-Palestine-conflict where the parties of God are vetoing
regarding the borders of
the
“holy land”; it changes religious extremism and the wars fought over it. Religion is the biggest cause for hatred
in the world, as Hitchens said. My book
is
a minimalist theory
that
encompasses all one needs to understand
Everything: existence (why there is size itself) and
evolution – even thoughts about the future of humanity/evolution.
Even though there comes a sense of meaninglessness from knowing the existential theory and a sense of depression from knowing evolution, there is
a sense of
honor in having the right world-view.
Most importantly, the religious wars - ISIS/Israel/etc. - can be demolished by a world-view which everyone agrees on. War only continues because it is boring to learn and teach the course I present in this book. Hence the book´s name: War and Boredom, or: how boredom (toward science) keeps the wars continuing.
Not only can this book end wars, but it can unify people so that they feel more friendliness toward each other – science is a language and speaking the same language makes it easier to make friends. Having the same associations between concepts (a scientific world-view) gives people a lot to agree on, they´ll “speak the same language”.
If anyhow you get too bored to study further, there are three parts to this book (1: the existential theory, 2: evolution, 3: the dawn of religion), and they’re written with different styles. You may jump to either part directly.
Lecture 1
Descartes
One of the aims of this course is to get EVERYONE to agree so that they have the same associations between scientific concepts.
There is no other proper way to accomplish this goal than by starting with certain truth, which was found by Descartes in the 1600s. He lived in a time where they believed in demons, Gods etc. so he postulated a thought experiment where he assumed an almighty demon was fooling him in everything he could be fooled in: what would remain as certain truth – what could he not be fooled in?
If he was being fooled, where would still be a “he” (or self) there to be fooled, meaning that the self certainly exists. A self is necessary for a self to be fooled.
Descartes had thus concluded his own existence.
Being fooled is thinking – thus thought exists. “There is thought” Descartes concluded as certain truth. The word “fooling” represents a thought-process.
Descartes found the starting-position for any inquiry about truth: we can know certainly that thinker and thought exists.
Distinction exists (a logical conclusion from the above)
Looking at what we´ve found as certain truth so far “from above” (meta), we can take the next logical step – adding a third factoid to our 2-statement (A and B above) starting position: that there is distinction (
between
thinker and thought). The fact that thinker and thought are two separate entities concluded to be certain truth
s
through two
different
logical pathway
s
lets us conclude that “distinction exists”
. There are what Chinese philosophy calls “the ten thousand things” (referring to the world) – there are at least two (three if we include “distinction” as th
e third thing) certain entities, and empirically we know there are “ten thousand things” (not taking the number 10 000 literally but just referring to multiplicity).
First universal diagram
We can draw the thinker and thought and distinction between them as two dots with a line between them on a piece of paper (fig. 1).
Now we have something all religions agree on
– we´ve drawn up ideas and associations between them. Everyone ought to have the same associations (explanatory thoughts) between the concepts we´ve looked at so far.
We have, if you will – in figure 1 – a universal diagram.
Reality
We have the capability to conglomerate many separate entities under the rubric of a single category. If we use this capability to collect the “ten thousand things” (distinct entities) we´ve found so far into a single thing, we ought to give that thing a word/name. Its definition can be “that of which all is
part” and “the opposite of separation/distinction”. I will use the word Reality to refer to this all-encompassing thing.
In lecture 2 I will present three proofs for that “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, but for now we can draw (adding to figure 1) a dot with a cross over it – the cross to symbolize that the dot itself is a false representation of Reality because we (the observer/self/thinker) should be part of that dot. See fig 2.
Thinking about what we´ve got so far
Thinking about what we´ve got so far (fig. 2) it’s a bundle of associations which make universal inter-religious (all religions agree on it) knowledge with both words and pictures.
In the next lecture I present why the line in fig 2 (see fig 3) represents the opposition/antagonism/disagreement/contraposition/divergence/variance between the two sides of the paper; between “thinker and thought” on one side of the paper and “Reality (that of which all is part; the opposite of separation)” on the other side of the paper.
Worth noting now is that the left side of the paper represents separation/distinction whilst the right side of the paper represents the opposite of separation/distinction – both are legitimate ideas: thinker and thought – and distinction – is certain truth based on Descartes and we all know which idea we refer to when talking about the all-encompassing [that of which all is part] Reality.
In the next lecture we will talk about why the line in fig. 3 makes it so that we can´t see Reality – I will present three proofs like in a crime case, and we will talk about what we can see if we can´t see Reality.
Making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far
1
See fig. 1 again: it´s our starting-point and the thinking that occurs in it happens in Descartes “realm of mind”; it is the mind´s realm (the left side of the paper) in which the thinking happens, and one thing we talk about is Reality on the right side of the paper in fig 3. Since the line in fig. 3 represents both the legitimacy of the ideas on both sides of the paper, and simultaneously the opposition between separation/distinction (on the left side of the paper) and [the opposite of separation/distinction] on the right side of the paper. That opposition is important and I will show its significance in lecture 2.
2
Starting from Descartes realm (of if you will: assuming that all we know is what we know for certain), we have the capability to state that there is a single Reality of which all is part – so even though we see separation we must grant that that separation (all entities) fits into a category we call Reality. There is a unifying whole even though the human mind (Descartes realm) is limited in its ways when it tries to contemplate Reality.
Not only is there the map-territory distinction (which will be presented as one out of three proofs in lecture 2), but there is also a more fundamental opposition between distinction and its opposite (there is a more fundamental opposition between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3). Not only are we stuck in the map-territory-distinction-realm but we also can conclude that no representation (regardless of the mind) is equal to Reality (on a more fundamental level than the map-territory-problem).
Representation is done in the brain using neurons and in a computer using electrons, but there is no reason why the most distant atom or quark couldn´t be proposed to be a symbol for [that of which all is part] – and even in that brainless scenario we will see in lecture 2 that “that of which all is part cannot be represented”. The map-territory-distinction is just proof/evidence number two in lecture 2 (for that we cannot see Reality and thus, since we do see/represent something, there must be more to Reality than can be represented i.e. the size-time-diagram (presented in lecture
2) is infinite along both axes.
Proof 3 in lecture 2 removes the brain from the equation and still proves that there is more to Reality than can be seen/represented/symbolized (using any means/any method – even without a brain), and since some representation is obviously (since we know that there are minds) possible, there must be more than can be represented/contemplated i.e. the size-axis is infinite and the time-axis is infinite in that two-axis diagram.
3
Both sides of the paper in fig. 3 are legitimate ideas. But still they are opposites (separation on one side and the opposite of separation on the other side). How can two derived-from-logic sides of the paper be opposites but still both be legitimate?
Usually opposition – like between Democrats and
Republicans – means that one is right and the other is wrong; they can´t both simultaneously be right: you can´t meaningfully vote for both parties at the same time.
The case is different between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3: both sides are right and they are opposites.
There is a single Reality and there is multiplicity in distinction.
What does this mean? That there is more to the size-time-diagram than anything could represent – any representation fails (you can think of some examples/suggestions for how to represent [that of which all is part]/[the opposite of separation]) – and thus the axes on the size-time-diagram are infinite. This is a hither to unpresented fact in science – it is new science: some of the best scientists ignorantly believe that the size-range is limited/finite.
4
We have quite a few associations and symbols in fig. 3 which must be agreed upon, and here I´m using the word “must” in the sense that “by the rules of logic X must be true”. Other civilizations throughout the infinitely many galaxies there are use the exact same ideas (but in a different language) and have the same associations between them (that there are infinitely many galaxies is derived from that the size-axis in the size-time-diagram is infinite). There is distinction as the third truth to be added to Descartes two fundamental truths (thinker and thought exist), and all that is opposed to (on the other side of the paper in fig. 3) to the all-encompassing Reality which is defined using at least two definitions: that of which all is part and the opposite of separation.
I´m tri-lingual but I write the same ideas and associate them in the same ways no matter which language I write in – its universal science beginning from certain truth. On other planets that have civilizations my writings in this book ought to match up quite near to the writings creating the same lecture series based on universal science that I´m creating
– “alien”/exo-planet
lecture series proceed, beginning from certain fact, through logical steps as I do.
5
[Thinker and thought] (certain truth) and thus distinction/separation are associated through negation/opposition to the right side of the paper in figure 3: Reality. The left side is not the right side just like separation is not its opposites. Both being legitimate ideas, though, connects them in the way that thinker and thought (and all other distinct entities) are in the category Reality.
Even though Reality and distinction are opposites, distinction dwells in (as a sub-entity within the category) Reality.
The associations between the left and right sides of the paper in figure 3 are both united through the notion “opposition” and through the notion that distinction is inherent in Reality (Reality being the opposite of distinction
because we have all-encompassing and its opposite: composite parts).
6
It is certainly true that all is part of a single Reality; but it is equally true that in every observation there is an observer and hence distinction (between thinker and thought). We see separate entities is as true as that the self that we are is not in front of us – but everything we see (thought/object) is in front of us.
That is evidence 1 in lecture 2 (not a proof, but a mere suggestion/evidence that [that of which all is part cannot be observed] and thus there is more to Reality than our concept of [infinitely much].
All we know about Reality has two properties: a size and a time. Size and time are two axes on a diagram, and thus all we know fits into the size-time-diagram (every object or location in space
has a size and time).
There is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram because all suggested representors for Reality fail
(for three reasons taken up in lecture 2).
7
All
bundles of associations in this chapter “making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far”
are written in order to create some universal brain structures (universal because science is the same everywhere (on all exo-planets), and their brains make the same associations too eventually). It´s not some random bundle of associations nor did I randomly present random ideas.
I assume the brain structure created by understanding this book is a replica of something derived from science; a replica of brain structures on the infinitely many other civilization-bearing planets. It´s a universal “ideology”, if you will.
Everyone has a possibility of sharing it in agreement – and future lectures will add a whole lot of complexity to it; agreement tends to build friendship so study is a way of bringing more peace to the world.
Once the full world-view is presented throughout this book, it´s a way of pacifying the world.
8
We have two brain-halves: one linguistic and one visual. So far we´ve both drawn pictorial representations and connected words – both brain-halves have been working. The connections across corpus collosum (which sits between the brain-halves and connects them) that connect a linguistic narrative/explanation to the pictorial representations are one day found in all humans thanks to science. Our brains are becoming more as science has a propensity to make them be.
This course itself, since it begins with certain truths and builds upon it logically, is a universal course (to the best of my ability).
The brain cells that constitute the negation (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 3) or opposition are not the same kind of cells (they are inhibitory neurons) that connect thinker with though as both being certain truths (but the thinker is not the thought and thus has inhibitory cells making that brain-structure work too
(what you are is not in front of you;
what you are is not visible).
Since both Reality and [what you are]/self/observer/thinker are invisible the brain might erroneously and spontaneously try to associate them, so a brain-structure is needed to inhibit that association (and replace it with a more complex explanation). That spontaneous but erroneous association is something all thinking animals throughout the universe evolved to do, and the inhibition of it through culture/civilizing/science is universally available within complex enough civilizations throughout the universe.
As you can see the brain structures responsible for doing this thing are quite complex, but also universal and thus accessible to all humans, and predictably will someday be in all humans (fostering agreement, thus friendship, thus peace).
Lecture 2
Perceive, apprehend, notice are synonyms for our representing ability, but I will use the word “see” or “observe” to refer to all of these. The goal of this lecture is to prove the statement “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, Reality being defined as “that of which all is part”. In other words: we cannot see Reality, and thus there is more to Reality than even can be contemplated (i.e. infinitely much).
I will build this lecture like a criminal court case: I will present three proofs for that we cannot see Reality i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated i.e. (since we can contemplate anything (right or wrong)) Reality is infinite.
Since anything/everything we know about Reality has some size and time, it fits into a size-time-diagram. See fig. 4.
In fig. 4 size is represented along the vertical axis and time along the horizontal axis. The objects humans see in everyday life (from the horizon to a single cell as one “pixel” in our visual field) are marked in “the human range”.
See fig 5.
In fig. 5 I´ve drawn the same diagram as in fig. 4 but this time with infinity-symbols in each corner of the squareical size-time-diagram. Two infinite axes become a square.
Proof number 3 in our “court case” for proving that the size-time-diagram (Reality) is infinite has us imagine the unobservable separatenessless Reality and ask whether there is a maximum or minimum size to/in it (a maximum/minimum being separateness while we are talking about the opposite of separation). This is again to confirm that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes.
The line we drew in fig. 4 was for separating the two sides of the paper; opposing “thinker and thought” (distinction) with its opposite: one all-encompassing non-distinction Reality. That opposition-line is what this lecture is about since it proves that the two sides of the paper are separate/opposing realms and we are stuck in one realm as long as we are observers (because observation is separation/distinction (thinker and thought)).
Proving that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes is new science because it poses the question: what happened before the Big Bang (14 billion years ago), and it presents one pillar of our existential theory: that each size is the reason for each next and previous size, and the size axis is infinite, meaning the “beginning” of the relationship between sizes keeps retreating into infinity the more we contemplate the range of the size axis.
When I presented fig. 4 for the first time I drew a cross over the dot symbolizing Reality for the plain reason that we (as observers) should be part of that dot, and by the very nature of us being separate (and the dot representing the opposite of separation) we should draw a cross over it symbolizing that we cannot see it.
The main proof though is that even if all observers were dead there´d still be, inherent and fundamental in nature, the opposition between distinction and distinction´s opposite (the two sides of the paper in fig. 4). The line is an opposition-line and it is more fundamental than being dependent on humans/observers – it refers to all representation whether it’s using/including humans or not. I am, in other words, not talking about the map-territory distinction (which symbolizes that humans have mental maps and not the real world per se; like Kant said: we have “the thing” and not “the thing itself”). Proof 2 – the opposition-line between the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 – is not subjective: it is true that we live with the map-territory-distinction but even if I died there´d still be separate things (chairs separate from cups), that kind of separation is not dependent on me/observers. Simultaneously the flipside of the coin (the other side of the paper in fig. 4) is true too: all is one single Reality (the opposite of separation). Proof 2, in other words, should not be interpreted as signifying the map-territory distinction (human subjectivity) but instead a fundamental opposition in the universe.
If we do not see Reality, then what do we see? Everything we see fits into the size-time-diagram, and since the opposition-line in fig. 4 shows that there is a fundamental rule that states, in 3 different proofs, that Reality is infinite / there is more than can even be contemplated / there is more than even non-subjective representation can represent.
Proof number 1 is really weaker than a “proof” – it´s more like evidence. It wouldn´t hold up in a court but it is a way of stating what the other proofs too point towards. Proof 1 is what we saw when presenting figure 4: any dot representing Reality is an incorrect representation because the observer should be part of the object – the thinker should be part of the thought. It denies Cartesian separation and thus is untrue, meaning that anything we draw on the right side of the paper in fig. 4 is incorrect.
We can contemplate anything: we can speculate about what´s smaller than quantum physics, or even what´s smaller than that, etc. into infinity. We are probably wrong, but any contemplation/representation counts as a contemplation – and since we know that, whether right or wrong as our contemplations may be, there is more to Reality than can be contemplated, it follows
that there must be infinitely much to Reality. Since all we know about Reality fits into a size-time-diagram, the minimalist approach is to state that it´s the size-time-diagram that is infinite.
This warrants two new words: the knowable/known size-range and the infinite size-range. The knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range. Since Einstein unified space (size) and time, one cannot be infinite without the other one being the same. Science today doesn´t know whether there was a “before” to the Big Bang or not (whether time was created at the Big Bang), but now we know that the Big Bang is just an event on an infinite time axis. In a future lecture we will talk about how/why the Big Bang recreates (happens over and over).
We talked about universal diagrams (and universal brain-structures) in lecture 1. The size-time-diagram is one major universal diagram. A lot of detail can be added to it because all fields of science fit into it. The infinity-symbols on each axis of the squareical diagram are drawn, based on science, on exo-planets with advanced enough civilizations.
This lecture is about proving that [that of which all is part] (the opposite of separation) i.e. Reality cannot be observed/represented, and that this fact is true irrespective of whether we are observers or dead, and applying this to the size-time-diagram (which gets its infinity-symbols into the squareical diagram).
Proof number 2 (the main proof) is the oppositional approach between Reality and distinction, and it is not subjective because Reality and Reality´s opposite exist even if we were dead. Proof number 3 is about imagining (even though no imagination is it) Reality as a big gray (because energymass is white and spacetime is black) solid, in which we know no observer should be (because observation is separation) – does it have separation i.e. a biggest and a smallest size? No, because such distinctions are not in the opposite of distinction (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 4).
I´ve mentioned universal associations in the brain / exo-planet science, so talking about the size-time-diagram we can add more universal notions to it: why did I draw upwards on the size axis as larger and downward as smaller? Why is the time-axis horizontally drawn instead of vertically? The diagram works even if we would define the vertical axis as time and the horizontal axis as size – so why do we draw size vertically and time horizontally? Is it universal i.e. on other planets or just a human convention like writing from left to right in English-speaking countries and right to left in Arabic-speaking countries?
Evolution has it so that during the history of science telescopes look upward and microscopes look downward. This would be the case on other planets too: they turn their heads upward to see the large and downward (onto a table) to see the small; the opposite can´t be true on any planet. Thus we get the size axis´ standard (of upward being larger) from evolution / the history of science. I use the word “standard” because it comes from evolution rather than being more fundamentally hard-wired into the universe such as the fact that the size-time-diagram is a square with infinity symbols. That the size-time-diagram is a square is not a standard – it is something stronger than that. The fact that we represent time on the vertical axis (and upward as larger) comes from a weaker source: tradition (even though that same tradition is true on all planets; evolution, in this regard, happens the same on all planets that end up with civilizations).
We thus have added standards or weak conventions (derived from history) in addition to having strong diagrams like the size-time-diagram being a square. The distinction between the two is made based on science and is thus made on exo-planets.
Scientists are looking for exo-planets that bear civilizations. If the size-range is infinite – as we´ve proven that it is – then each particular size (like the human range in fig. 5) is infinite too; if the largest is infinitely large then there is, considering the size of a human, an infinite distance in any direction that that human could find itself in. This makes civilizations on other planets a must, not an assumption. The known/knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range, and within the known size-range there is a range in which evolution occurs (between the smallest cells and the biggest organisms), and since we´ve proven that there are infinitely many objects within/of that size-range, then there must be infinitely many locations in which evolution occurs.
In the next lecture we will bind together the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 (distinction and distinction´s opposite; “thinker and thought” opposing Reality) with E=mc
2
(energymasspacetime) and with the infinity of the size-time axes, into a single existential theory which is a rival to “God created earth in 6 days…” The existential theory is a minimalist account for why there is a sizescale in the first place, and why there is something (energymass) rather than nothing (spacetime). It reminds me of this passage: “HITCHENS: In other words, as the great physicist Laplace said when he demonstrated his working model (his orrery, as it’s called) of the solar system to the emperor and Napoleon said, “Well I see there’s no God in this system,” and Laplace said, “Well, Your Majesty, it works without that assumption.””
In this chapter I´ve presented three proofs for that the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in it i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated; we do represent something but however we choose to represent (even representations that can be proposed as thought-experiments if we were dead) we do not represent Reality i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality. Are there any counter-arguments saying that the size-time-diagram is finite? I built this lecture like a court case and I´d like to hear the opposing side. There are no arguments that oppose what I´ve proven so far.
Lecture 3
E=mc
2
E=mc
2
as an equation is only used in relativistic scenarios such as very high speed or very high energy, but since speed is a continuum the equation is true at slower speeds. There is a difference between the equation being applicable (being needed while solving equations) and it being true; it is always true everywhere but it is not needed for equations except in special scenarios.
An example of the equation being true everywhere and always is this: nuclear power-plants turn mass (kilograms) into energy (joule), so that if you input 1 kg of uranium-mass you get out 99.9999 kg of waste products – some of the mass turned into energy which lights our light-bulbs. The atoms that lost some weight (that weight was converted into energy) are atoms just like other kinds of atoms, for example in autumn leaves. If you´d drop leaves into the core of the sun, the sun´s nuclear furnace
would turn mass in the leaves into energy (light). Hence all objects are subject to the E=mc
2
-rule, which states that energy (E) equals mass (m). This warrants the word energymass because they are no longer two distinct things – they are but different manifestations of the same thing. In the brain energymass should be a single idea whilst the concepts “energy and mass” refers to two different forms of a single idea.
Verbs and adjectives tend to refer to energy (shining, running, etc.) while nouns refer to mass (body, tree, etc.) E=mc
2
states that the two (verbs/adjectives and nouns) are together in a single equation. Although only applicable in relativistic scenarios (the role of relativism becomes close to zero in everyday human events, except that our light-bulbs shine because mass turns into energy and the sun can makes leaves into light), E=mc
2
is in a “philosophical” sense true everywhere and always just like Pythagoras’s theorem about triangles remains “philosophically true” even where there are no physical triangles. You wouldn´t say 1=1 is not true in empty space just because there are no objects there to count as “1”.
In addition to energymass being a single concept (and not two distinct ones), spacetime gets added into the mix by the c
2
-part of the equation. c is the speed of light (km/h) and thus a distance (space) over time – spacetime! Energymass (E=m) and spacetime (c
2
) should in the brain be represented by a single idea which we can call energymasspacetime. This harkens back to the previous lectures about Reality, which is a synonym for energymasspacetime. Einstein invented the equation E=mc
2
and thus unified in it energymass with spacetime – and synonyms for energymass are “existence” or “1” while synonyms for spacetime are “non-existence”, “emptiness”, “nothing” and “zero”. There is no more to be considered regarding Reality than energymasspacetime; energymasspacetime involves everything (energymass) and nothing (spacetime) so there is nothing more to be considered/added to Reality – Reality is energymasspacetime; everything is included into Reality once we have defined Reality as energymasspacetime.
The Existential Theory
Each culture seems to have a creation myth (such as genesis) – the creation of the cosmos/world/Reality is something humans have invented hypotheses for during millennia. The stories answer the question “why are we here?”
The true answer is unintuitive. First of all: why is there any particular size? What justifies, say, the size of a molecule? The answer is: the smaller and the larger (the rest of the size-range). Atoms justify a molecule and a molecule exhibits a place for atoms to live in: justifies atoms. Humans need an earth to dwell on (the earth is larger) and humans are made of cells (cells are smaller). Each size bears a relationship upon each other size – the smaller justify the larger and the larger justify the smaller. Since the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all four corners of the square (because of the proof where we had two sides of a paper), the size-range is infinite i.e. the pattern of justification between/amongst sizes continues into the infinitely large and infinitely small. What the ancients called “the first cause” keeps retreating into infinity size-wise the more we contemplate it. The size-range is like a fractal: you can keep zooming in or out infinitely much, and the question “why is there this particular object that I see” has its answer in the relationship between all the sizes: justification. Infinite justification is the reason why there is a size-range at all. But there is more that is needed for a full-fledged existential theory: two more factors play their roles.
Spacetime is emptier than we can imagine/represent it. We (and all representeurs) are energymass and thus are the opposite of spacetime. We could let a piece of empty space represent spacetime, but as soon as we use energymass (such as our brains) to do so, we´ve lost the truly empty nature of spacetime: it is unimaginably empty. Any bundle of neurons, no matter how we wire it, is still the opposite of what they want to represent when they want to present us with spacetime. It is therefore useful to have two concepts for spacetime: (1) our simplest intuition of spacetime and (2) additional defining language explaining that spacetime is emptier than (1). This is how exoplanet civilizations would wire their brains regarding the concept “spacetime” too, just because it’s the most accurate science they can manage.
Just like energy and mass are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon, energymass and spacetime are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon. What does it mean for spacetime to be bundled together with (intertwined with) energymass? Everything exists as/in/because of nothing; 1 exists in 0; energymass and spacetime are together in the E=mc
2
-equation. Where could energymass/existence exist? In nothingness. Just like sizes justify one another, spacetime justifies energymass.
The last question that remains, after we have justification between sizes in an infinite size-range, and that all points in the size-time-diagram are made of energymasspacetime (and energymass is justified by it being in spacetime), is the objective fact that there both is a single Reality (the right side of the paper) and there´s its opposite: distinction (between, say, thinker and thought).
The existential theory builds on three “pillars”/fundamental ideas:
An infinite sizescale,
Energymasspacetime as in the equation E=mc
2
Distinction between distinction itself and distinction´s opposite (see fig. 1, 2, 3):
Between distinction (the left side of the paper, our 2 certain truths: I exist and there is thought) and Reality (the opposite of distinction; one Reality (not plural)) there is a line that demarcates distinction/opposition.
Putting it all into one phrase we might say: “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime with opposition between distinction and Oneness”. At its core it´s three ideas (infinite size-time-diagram, energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
), separation and intertwinedness (the two sides of the paper)). On exoplanets they would state their reason for their own existence using these three ideas too, because taken together they explain all that needs to be explained: first thing that comes to mind is that in the stated existential theory there must be a reproducing shape (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape; a DNA-strand) somewhere. If the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all three corners, then evolution ought to occur somewhere (and be made of energymass in spacetime, while being separate/distinct in a single intertwined Reality).
Most creation-myths have a quite simple (one-pillared) and mundane story: for example genesis just states that God created Reality (that of which all is part) in 6 days and rested on the 7
th
. The scientific rival to all such creation stories is a three-pillared theory – we can´t make it any simpler (we can´t make it one-pillared) and the same would be the case on exoplanets: they too can only break it down to three interconnected ideas/pillars/fundaments, so in thinking this way we share a common intellectual history with exoplanet civilizations advanced enough to figure out this existential theory.
On a test on this subject a question might be: “what are the three pillars of the existential theory?” – the question can´t be “what is the most important pillar in the existential theory?” All pillars are
equally important but constitute as distinct ideas as E=mc
2
is from infinite size, or the separation-intertwinedness-opposition (fig. 3).
This three-pillared creation story – the sum of these three chapters – is built upon logic: it includes certain truths like “I think and I exist” (distinction/separation), its opposite (Reality for which we have three proofs for that it can´t be observed/seen/contemplated i.e. the size-time-diagram is infinite), E=mc
2
which unifies nothing/spacetime with existence/energymass, and the relationship between any two sizes (justification along the infinite size-range). Every one of these ideas relates very closely to Descartes´ certain truth, meaning we can be sure of the ideas themselves – and they together build up a minimalist existential theory which needs no further logic to explain everything there is.
Having an infinite size-range has a predictive quality to it too – it makes a prediction: there ought to be evolution (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar mass) somewhere in the diversity we see throughout even the known size-range.
Though as non-intuitive as the 3-pillar existential theory may be to our evolved brains who want a single conclusion, exoplanet civilizations have the same limits and biases as us: they too are stuck with three pillars in a single theory to make the theory explainable. Science is creating universal (exoplanet) neural pathways in our brains. We should embrace the fact that by being non-intuitive but true, this science wires our brain based on science and thus universally. It is the way (the wiring) that all planets are headed to if they´re into science. It´s a universal world-view. We´re thinking like aliens.
In current scientific debates the religious will argue that faith (in a dogma) is needed to (what they call) “understand” the existence of the universe. If confronted with my theory (these lectures) they´d have to agree that logic makes their God unnecessary as a pillar of creation. In the best case scenario God is simply a synonym for Reality (because Reality is “that of which all is part” and thus God ought to be part of it too, and all we know about Reality is that it is energymass in spacetime and separation in intertwinedness).
Having an explanation – the negative side of it is it being three-pillared and unintuitive, the positive side of it being that it accounts for all of Reality and predicts evolution – further justifies the saying “a God of the gaps” (meaning the more we understand the less we need God). Now all that remains to be understood – again in an unintuitive but identical to exoplanets -way – is how, on an infinite time-line, the Big Bang (denseness) recreates and fades away into sparseness (black holes removing energymass and dark energy creating more space until no galaxies are anymore visible).
Lecture 4
The beginning of the Big Bang
I have a hard time imagining how the universe can reach complete emptiness, but it wouldn´t be the first time the universe´s nature surpasses human intuition. In the history of science stars were observed to not move relative to one another on the night sky, and this was argued to prove that the
size of the universe was much smaller than the now known size – it was argued that the universe would be “unreasonably big” if the stars didn´t seem to move relative to one another as the earth moved because they were so far away.
If only enough time is needed for the universe to become empty, then we get the starting scenario which is most reasonable: we start with emptiness (spacetime). Again, spacetime is emptier than our concept for it because we (and our concepts) are made of energymass.
If you move your hand one meter (from position 1 to position 2), the laws of nature that make your hand make sense were already in place in the space of position 2 before you moved your hand there. It´s not like the universe/spacetime was absurd in location 2 and only started to make sense regarding hands when you moved your hand there. We do not impact the laws of nature in such ways; instead the laws of nature are simultaneously and equally true at all locations and all times. In other words: Pythagoras’s theorem is true even in locations where there are no objects whatsoever, but the theorem is only applicable (to be applied) to triangles. In empty space there are no objects and thus no triangles, but Pythagoras´s theorem is true there anyhow – it does not suddenly become true (switch from being untrue to true) when a triangle is imagined or physically moved there. This applies to E=mc
2
too, which is just as much of a law of nature as Pythagoras´s theorem. E=mc
2
is true everywhere and always, though humans only apply (use) the equation in certain scenarios. Where triangles can be (in spacetime) there is also E=mc
2
. Laws of nature are fundamental and inherent in spacetime and do not come about depending on events (though our application/use of any particular equation is dependent on which event we´re analyzing).
There is distinction between the practical use of equations (to solve problems or understand a phenomenon) and the core nature of spacetime having laws of nature in it. Spacetime is a no-nonsense spacetime – we live in a rational (laws of nature-abiding) universe.
One law being E=mc
2
and another one being “if it is said it must exist” (meaning energymass can´t be mentioned in the laws of nature of spacetime without energymass existing), we get spacetime to summon energymass if the starting-point was complete emptiness. “If energymass is mentioned it must be summoned” (it is mentioned in E=mc
2
) is true because it would be a nonsense universe if it “talks” about energymass without there being any – just infinite space for eternity with laws of nature regarding energymass, but never any energymass appearing/being present. It would be a nonsense universe if energymass it mentioned but never exists. It would be akin to the universe telling lies (having all these rules like E=mc
2
but never applying them to anything), or the universe babbling gibberish (having inapplicable laws of nature).
Thus, E=mc
2
being a core property of spacetime itself and the “no gibberish”-rule applying, energymass must logically be summoned – but how and where? Extremely dense i.e. everywhere, in the smallest spaces, simultaneously. Why? Our starting-point is spacetime, which needs no prior justification because it is the opposite of existence: it doesn´t exist – it is emptier than our neurons make it out to be. In it Einstein´s theory of relativity is true, meaning that there is no center point (or in other words: all points are the center) so there is no center to the Big Bang. Another way of seeing it is that as soon as there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification), E=mc
2
became true in all locations (in the smallest spaces) simultaneously – no point in space was before another in having E=mc
2
be true in it. Spacetime having E=mc
2
as a core property has E=mc
2
be true everywhere
simultaneously; once we have the launching-condition of empty spacetime, through E=mc
2
, energymass is summoned everywhere simultaneously.
This “everywhere” is all things within an event horizon, meaning that things moving away faster than the speed of light (due to dark energy/accelerating cosmic expansion) are not within our event horizon: they are not part of what can be reasonably called “our 3-dimensional space” (from our location). Things are not part of our universe once their speed hits faster than the speed of light – and many locations, within the boundaries of their respective event horizons, will one day have all energymass moving away from them at speeds faster than the speed of light (this is just the observed fact of accelerating cosmic expansion). Such a finite space with no energymass within its event horizon (all energymass moving away faster than the speed of light) would constitute “completely empty space” i.e. our starting-point for the Big Bang (energymass being summoned due to E=mc
2
).
Consider an infinite size-range - it is made of energymasspacetime: if we draw it as the Y-axis on a diagram, there can´t be a region/length in it (such as the knowable size-range) which is completely empty forever. See fig. 6.
Because of the rules E=mc
2
and “if it is mentioned it must be summoned”/”no-nonsense universe” are true throughout the infinite size-range, there can´t be a region with just spacetime (with its laws of nature) because the laws of spacetime mention energymass; spacetime is inherently tied to and intertwined with energymass – existence and non-existence go together (at all sizes). There would be no logical breaking-point (a particular size) where energymasspacetime transitions into being just spacetime for a range of sizes and then transitions back into energymasspacetime; there is no logical breaking-point where the implications of E=mc
2
(the implication being: energymass and spacetime are in the same equation) stop to be true. The transition seen in fig. 6 is impossible (there is no “empty region”). Having an empty region would be akin to zooming into the decimals of pi and seeing no numbers for a specific array of decimals: 3.14159ÄÄÄÄ265359... The Ä´s can´t be there: it´s a continuous sequence of decimal numbers. There is no break/”empty region” in the continuous decimals of pi just as there is no region of the size-range that can be empty of energymass.
In this chapter I´ve written something akin to “
first
there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification unless you consider that the size-axis of the size-time-diagram is infinite),
then
there was E=mc
2
,
then
there was energymass summoned into the smallest spaces available (available = considered to be within an event horizon and empty)”. This harkens back to previous lectures´ talk about “alien logic” (how exoplanets think). To have it make sense to our brains we use the time-distinctions “first, then and then” but the real distinction is not in time but in steps in a sequence of logic. In other words all the mentioned steps happened simultaneously to start the Big Bang: E=mc
2
was true as soon as there was spacetime, and as soon as there was that, energymass appeared as not to make the universe absurd (by it talking gibberish or it having an empty region like in fig. 6).
The end of the Big Bang
Telescopes observe that “space is being born” i.e. that the distances between clumps of energymass (galaxies) are getting larger, and at an accelerating pace too. Not only does the Hubble law state that an object a
million light
-
years
away would be receding from us at 21 km/sec and at double the distance twice the speed, but the law states that that speed (for example 21 km/sec a million light years away) is increasing. This is called accelerating cosmic expansion. It means that from our galaxy, when/if we look into the sky trillions of years in the future, we´d see no trace of any other galaxy let alone the cosmic microwave background (because their speeds have passed the speed of light and thus went beyond the event horizon). Once that object a million light years away from us which today is racing away at 21 km/sec reaches 299792 km/sec (the speed of light), it will pass from being within our event horizon to being outside our sphere of events.
This empties our universe or as Hitchens put it: “nothingness is coming”. Once that nothingness comes we have our starting point where we run through the logic of E=mc
2
–> “if it is mentioned it must exist/be summoned” (in order for the universe not to talk gibberish or the infinite size-range not to have a break in it) –> energymass begins as dense (because of relativity and because E=mc
2
is true everywhere simultaneously/equally).
We observe that nothingness (within event horizons) is coming, and beginning from nothingness there is unintuitive logic that has a predictive quality to it: the Big Bang should start dense. This theory works well with lecture 2´s proofs for that “there is more to Reality than can be represented” (the size-time-diagram is infinite) because size is essentially space, and space and time are intertwined into a single spacetime – hence: if size/space is infinite then time must be infinite too. In other words we have reoccurring Big Bangs interspersed along the time-axis of our size-time-diagram. As soon as a region bound by an event horizon becomes empty we have the universe´s no-nonsense-laws kicking in and E=mc
2
summons energymass (in the smallest sizes that are empty equally/simultaneously).
The sequence of consecutive Big Bangs´ beginnings (emptiness leading to energymass being summoned) and ends (accelerating cosmic expansion speeding things past a point´s event horizon and emptiness being summoned) are as infinite as the time-axis proved to be based on lecture 2´s proofs. Proving (in lecture 2) that spacetime is infinite fits perfectly with the reoccurring Big Bangs (when somethingness becomes emptiness and then emptiness summons somethingness).
There will in other words, between the beginning of a Big Bang and the end of that same Big Bang, be life within the conscious/human size-range (the different locations of that size already being infinitely many, see fig. 4).
Each size along the size-axis is defined as “3-dimensional infinite space” meaning there is infinitely much life with access to universal science (i.e. some version of this lecture-series), and within our region (bound by an event horizon) there is life between the beginning and end of Big Bangs. In addition I have hard to believe that a reproducing shape (and thus evolution) only occurs in only
one
size-range (the, for humans, knowable size-range) in an infinite size-range: there ought to be many sub-size-ranges as part of the infinite size-range where evolution occurs and can reach scientific knowledge. All life mentioned above, if they reach scientific understanding, would concur on the existential theory presented in these lectures (especially lecture 3 – the three pillars/foundations/ideas which together become a minimalist theory for why there is the infinite size-range of energymasspacetime in the first place).
This is not only exoplanet science – it is science between Big Bangs and it is science in regions of the size-axis far away (in size) from our knowable size-range. See fig. 7.
Summary
First we looked at Descartes’ ”thought exists” and ”the self exists”, claimed that it was two valid statements and pointed out the distinction between them. On the other side of the paper we wanted to represent anti-distinction (the opposite of distinction) defined as “that of which all is part” (Reality), and realized that since thinker/thought is stuck on the left side of the paper we can’t represent Reality. This is not only Kant’s “the thing is not the thing itself (the mental map is not the real territory)” but more importantly whatever cannot be taken to represent “that of which all is part” i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality.
All we know about Reality (atoms, humans, galaxies) fit into a size-time-diagram (every object has a size and a time), so the minimalist approach combining the above paragraph with this one is to use the first paragraph to prove that the size-time diagram has infinite
axes. This in turn leads to an existential theory which can be summed up as “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime” – and it has a predictive quality to it: somewhere in such an existence there would be a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape and thus we get reproduction/evolution.
So far we’ve looked at the theory of why size itself exists, why there is something rather than nothing – an existential theory beginning from certain truth and logically building its way up all the way to predicting evolution.
Part 2: Evolution
My explanation of evolution focuses on how important disease and bullying (power) was for evolution.
Power
means that
fish
were
fighting fish breeding more agressive fish = dinosaurs, then
wolfpacks with an alpha male.
But even before and after those eras in evolution the rule of power was in play.
In part one we had an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime (including the intertwinedness-separation-opposition and the time-axis with repeating Big Bangs perpendicular to the size-axis) that predicts a reproducing shape i.e. a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape: reproduction in an infinite size-range.
This infinite size-range predicts reproduction.
Part one was about why there is a sizescale of energymasspacetime: the answers are that the sizescale is infinite and that energymass is in spacetime. It predicts that there should be a reproducing shape: say that it is a triangle which gathers surrounding lines into a similar triangle – then it has reproduced itself. The products of this reproduction obey three rules: directly when there was reproduction three rules came into play, I´ve listed them below as 1, 2, 3 but they are not in order (they came simultaneously):
1:
There is life and death: those who survive survive and those who die are not in the game anymore. “The surviving survive”. It´s so simple – we see it in everyday life today. But everything in evolution will come back to these three rules so we might as well do the banal and bring them up.
So directly when there was a reproducing shape - so in our part of the size-range a DNA-strand which split in the middle and became two DNA-strands – the copy either survived or died.
2: The second rule is that the number of offspring has significance. That is to say: if you get one child or five children or ten children, there is a difference between those numbers – and in evolution it´s a benefit to have more children. One can also have zero children, and that is approximately like being dead.
Some would say that evolution´s meaning (the main task of life) is to make more offspring – that it´s the scientific meaning of life – Nature´s meaning: to reproduce. But I would answer that evolution makes more offspring (that´s reproduction) and making more offspring gives evolutionary benefits, but Nature itself does not care – it does not care about whether we nuke ourselves or not. There is no God that looks upon us and cares. Even reproduction becomes meaningless in the larger perspective. But in evolution it has significance whether one has zero offspring or ten offspring.
Rule number two (number of offspring matters) just as simple as rule number 1 (that there is life and death; that some live and some die).
The third rule that appered... – well all three rules appeared simultaneously directly when there was reproduction in this sizerange. The third rule is that:
3: There is mutation in every generation-shift. Things change. It doesn’t make perfect copies. Your child (if you have one) is not an exact copy of yourself or your wife – it’s a mutation; a change.
These three rules – 1: that there is life and death, the surviving survive. 2: That there are different nuances in the number of offspring. 3: That there is mutation in every generation-shift – these three rules came into play directly when the first reproduction occurred. We will return to these three rules over and over again; they are like laws of nature that like God says shall work on life directly when the first life reproduces itself. These laws of nature didn’t exist before the first life reproduced itself – they were not active then. They became active directly when there was reproduction.
These are abstract laws that we will manufacture, then we have the physical reality of that in a puddle of water a strand of DNA – a cell – made copies/offspring. Then viruses came into the game and injected its own DNA into the ordinary cells, that is to say: hijacked their reproductive system to create virus-offspring. If this would´ve continued the ocean would´ve been filled with only viruses, so there has to be some next step which made it so that our type of life survived. But the viruses added a 4
th
law (one of these abstract laws)
and that is: if you can hijack someone else’s reproductive system to create your own offspring; if you can inject your DNA into somebody else´s cell so that it creates viruses – I call this “power”. We will return to this word when we for example look at dinosaurs (they became bigger because the men killed each other to get the women whom make offspring). This power-principle was one that came after the three first ones.
The first cells reproduced and we had these three rules, then viruses came and injected their DNA and used “power” to produce more viruses. Then we get an immune-system which kills viruses i.e. protects the original organism´s reproductive system from being hijacked by viruses. So the immune-system evolved to take back the reproductive principle (2: the number of offspring matters); for the fact that one should retain the reproductive capability for oneself – so that no virus can take it over. So power has a lot to do with the number of offspring – principle 4 has a lot to do with principle 2.
We have multicellular organisms with immune-systems, we have viruses around them – and it´s an arms-race between that the viruses mutate to overcome the immune-system and the immune-system mutates to overcome the virus. Thus we have an evolutionary pressure on mutating the immune-system as much as possible as fast as possible (because the viruses mutate very quickly), and the best way to do that is to combine genes from two different organisms: a man and a woman. So sex has its beginning in viruses.
If this doesn´t make you feel comfortable contemplate this: the truth outweighs positive-thinking. But does one want to remove whatever spreads joy among people? Those who want to defeat the religious violence in the world (I think religion is the biggest unnecessary cause of hatred in the world) – one cannot defeat that without defeating all religiousness simultaneously. To want to defeat one part of religion but not the rest of it is like voting for the Republicans and Democrats simultaneously – it´s just unreal. Sadly one must remove the good to remove the evil. Meditation still remains and one can get a kind of anxietylessness from some thoughts still but in the big picture there are no reasons that support them anymore – it´s just a brain-trick that one does.
In our evolutionary story we had an immune-system which mutates, wants more mutations – we get two genders. Then men begin to war with each other (because, metaphorically speaking, women can produce offspring once a year while men can produce it every day – we have an imbalance; asymmetry). Why is it always men that start wars? It began with the first fish – we had multicellular life in our story so far, so they became a bit bigger, could swim around – we get fish: it´s easier to find food then and easier to move around. Directly when there were two genders there was one fish which evolved to use its teeth for killing other male fish. The first aggressor of course got the most offspring because there were no other men around. That´s why men go to war: they can produce offspring with so many women while a woman has no benefit from having 1000 men.
There´s a caveat to
this once we get to caveman tribes/wolf-packs where a woman secretly wants many men to provide resources to her child, but at least in the era between fish and dinosaurs the picture was simply based on asymmetric reproductive rates.
So then the male fish grow more aggressive, the child who is the biggest and has the sharpest teeth kills the other male fish, has the most offspring; and in the next generation, again: the child with the most aggression and biggest muscles gets the most offspring – that´s how we get to dinosaurs and T-rex. We had males competing/fighting with each other and that´s why T-rex is so large. That is, again, the power-principle: just like viruses took over the reproductive system from the first cells, T-rex takes away the reproductive system from his rivals by killing them. So this principle number 4 (power) lives on – it has caused/causes so much: it causes the first viruses, it causes T-rex, that fish become aggressive, that we get two genders (by viruses getting power – so we wanted to counter that power by immune-systems i.e. two genders).
These dinosaurs then, just like humans don´t seem to have (sarcasm), any concept of preserving natural resources – so they would´ve eaten up all their trees and not had any food left. But on our planet it seems to have been a meteor-strike which wiped them out, but on exoplanets i.e. overall in this evolutionary series of evolutionary pressures causing various principles (first the three first principles, then the 4
th
principle, immune-systems, two-genderedness, bigger
fish, fights between the fish, dinosaurs). The dinosaurs ate their natural resources and all large life dies - so only small rat-like/squirrel-like life-forms live on.
The trees grow back up – we get monkeys.
Groups tend to, in a fight – if it´s a group against an individual (one against many) – the group tends to win. So we monkeys form groups, fighting together for food against individualists. The individualists lost.
So we got this - or had it from the get-go (just like with the first aggressors) – instinct that makes us want to be highest in the hierarchy and thereby get all the women. Power again. But this time it´s a kind of human power – we saw power when viruses took over the reproductive systems, we saw power when dinosaurs outcompeted their rivals (the men), we see power when a bully goes to the top of the hierarchy, pushes down the other men – and the women want the bully´s resources (he has the most stuff) so they´re attracted to him, so he gets the most offspring – out of his offspring the one that is best at getting power the one that gets most offspring.
The reason for why the brain grew so fast during the past 100 000 years was because we used the brain to plan for how to climb upward in the hierarchy. The reproductive benefits coming from being
cchigh-status in the hierarchy were so great comparing to being low-status that this put great selection-pressure on bigger brains.
Now we basically have caveman living in hierarchical societies, we have kings, aristocrats and slaves – and that is how the world was 5000 years ago. The kings build monumental architecture (pyramids and such). Then someone focused on a random word – so someone focused on what we talked about in part 1: Reality (that of which all is part) and realized one cannot see it (because we should be part of it, or the other two proofs for not being able to see all there is to Reality) and thus they invented the word God: it is one, one cannot see it – we have the dawn of monotheism.
Someone random-focused on the word “soul/self” too and realized one gets less anxiety by making a distinction between the body
one sees in ones imaginations
(the body in one´s plans which tries to get reproduction, survival, resources, power, etc. – the three evolutionary principles that we listed in the beginning of this chapter). One sees a body in front of oneself which tries to make plans to get these things. But it is not that body which is “true” – instead it´s the observer which sees this body
which is “True” – and one cannot see that observer because one is it all the time. This was when they invented the Soul.
So the words God and Soul are legitimate concepts – then the church added a bunch of things like “the soul is immortal” and that “God said this and that to one or another person” (prophets and so on whom lied about a bunch of things). We also have the Golden Rule “do onto others like you would like to have them do onto you” which is a universal thing that they surely have on other planets: we are all humans, we want to be treated as of equal value. So from evolution we went from having cavemen to that someone came up with these
simple
thoughts, and then the church added a bunch of clutter to them. We thus have religions´ beginnings. The ideas of soul (the True self/observer which can´t be seen) and God (that of which all is part is One) are scientific ideas – so to some extent we have the beginnings of science.
Then people invented the telescope and microscope (to discover the sizes in the size-range), and we have a lot of knowledge and upbringing – but this is more intellectual history instead of biological history/evolution – but the intellectual has its foundation in the biological. So now we have gone through the whole story from the first cells to the birth of science.
I try to make this into a theory that is agreed upon by everyone; nowadays there are people who say that God (defined as a metaphysical mind) is needed to understand the theory of evolution – that there are mysteries within evolution. But I see no mysteries in this.
In a future book we will look at consciousness: which kind of emotional repertoire we have. We already said that we want power, we want reproduction, we want resources… But we will look closer at exactly which emotions exist and into which categories one can categorize them – and why they came about (what their evolutionary histories/pressures are). Which exact emotions? The feeling that one wants power, the feeling that one wants to help the flock, the feeling that one wants to plan how to get reproduction… - everything we do / the things that we do. For example I wrote this book because I´m at “war” with the enemies of civilization (“the enemy tribe”), because I want power out of selling this, reproduction out of getting status from having found a new way of describing some things, helping
countries ravaged by religion to become civilized (“helping flock-members”)…
These things drive me to do something intellectual. The emotional repertoire – that is to say: the diagrams about the brain – we can look at in the next book, because now we´ve looked at evolution and evolution created the brain so there is a lot of overlap.
Part 3:
The dawn of religion
No-one knows which kind of God emerged first (in protohuman minds). Was it the contemplation on Part 1 of this book (the oneness of Reality and it’s unrepresentability – focusing on the most all-encompassing concept)? Was there a war between two tribes/groups and to avoid soldiers from deserting one’s own group, the priest/king claimed to get his orders from a super-human invisible entity (which “looks better” than a mere human giving orders). Thinking
“they have a superhuman invisible commander while our group is just mere humans” is demoralizing for the group believing that the enemy has something mystical super-human communicating with their leadership. This kind of god is a tool of war. Or was the first God invented in dog-brain sized brains where a simple cortical circuit (the assotiations: the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) lessened anxiety.
We are after-all craving for the approval of “the hierarchical top”, we fear it... we have all kinds of emotions toward it and it can be imagined to love me, to dictate procedures like prayers to me, etc. It’s such a simple cortical circuit to define the hierarchy’s top as “that of which all is part (Reality)” and say that it loves me. That’s basically three concepts (hierarhical top (Reality) protecting me) – and it alliviates anxiety and gets us through dark nights of the soul. For the simple reason that it feels good to activate that circuit we try to “drug ourselves” by activating it over and over, emphasizing our belief in it, teaching it to everybody. The “hierarchical top (defined as Reality) protects me”-emotion
is one of those good feelings that we can activate at will. When we genetically engineer super-positive feelings to be activated by words, those new animals will propably activate their best emotions like a drug-addict seeks drugs – but they can activate it with words.
The circuitry is simple enough and panic attacks are common enough that I think everyone activates that “...protects/loves me”-circuitry during their life-time. Some choose to call it “belief in God”, others “the hierarchical top (defined as that of which all is part) protects me” and others don’t use any words for it because it is as unnoticable as digestion – something that naturally occurs in certain circumstances and one doesn’t need to be arrogant or proud of having that circuitry because it’s like 3-4 concepts (memorizing 4 concepts whom’s associations make us feel better is not a big feat).
Whichever type of God came first is lesser of a question, though, than: is heaven the same thing? Can “heaven” (and “hell”) be interpreted in a way that it makes sense? Heaven is obviously not a location in the sizerange (we don’t move in the sizerange when we die), so is heaven outside the entire theory (and thus “outside” (though this thing has no outside) that of which all is part)? No. Heaven may be synonomous to being good, and not some location in the diagram.
Maybe heaven is what the future genetically engineered super-happy animal will be in all the time.
Summary
Now that we know the three-pillar existential theory (like infinitely many extraterrestrials in infinite space thinks about it), we’ve got the beginning of evolution with a tiny DNA-strand (first reproduction sparking the three first evolutionary rules (1,2,3) and then the 4
th
(power). At the same time we see a continuum all the way to understand religions.
Since the infinitely many extraterrestrials are like us – they share the same logical evolutionary principles in sets following one another along time in a triangle-shape because increasing complexity is shown along the triangle.
It’s not like I don’t sometimes focus on the sentence “top of the hierarchy (defined as that of which all is part) loves and protects me” (“belief in God” in religious language).
Aliens can also prioritize what to focus on; what to take more off and what one wants to take less of. Aliens “judge” us based on principles like maximum happiness for all (animals, all humans), “do onto others like you’d want them do to yourself”. These are simple universal rules that aliens follow to maximize happiness in an otherwise brutal dog-eat-dog world.
What’s worth noticing
in this whole book
is the existential theory which predicts a tiny DNA-strand is more interesting because it is HOW God created the universe, or if you prefer: you remove God and the existential theory rests firmly on its three pillars.
To me, the core of religion seems to be different emotions to and from the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”). The context of course is hierarchical animals which were preceded by group-dwelling animals (we talked about this in part 2 of this book: evolution).
Having a simplistic association of concepts (merely the 3-4
concepts: hierarchical top – defined as that of which all is part – protects/loves/etc me) gives a relief of anxiety, fear, loneliness etc. Having the more complex picture of the same thing – the context surrounding it – makes the whole thing mundane because we realize that “hierarchical top” refers to our wolf-like nature and “that of which all is part” comes as an infinite sizerange.
As I’ve said I agree with the words Soul (true self vs false self; observer of the body in one’s plans vs. the body in one’s plans) and God (defined as “that of which all is part” and synonymous with Reality). But Heaven is a tricker question – what does “heaven” mean? It is obviously no unknown size-range in the infinite sizerange nor a location in space, nor can it be “outside” [that of which all is part]. I acknowledge that believing in heaven gives the same kind of fear-relief as “the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) protects me”, but like I said: I have trouble not being complex and analyzing “the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) protects me” (putting it in it’s sizescalian and evolutionary context), and with “Heaven” I have even more trouble because the single simplest thought ruins that idea. If I were to try to “believe in Heaven” I’d have to focus so hard that my mind doesn’t wander to even the most closely associated or easily retrieved scientific concept (because that destroys heaven). I do believe in doing good out of solidarity, and that doing good will reak its rewards for the millions of coming generations.
So to me Holy Books tend to contain only the following: different emotions to and from the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) , scientific truths like that Reality cannot be seen, heaven & hell and rituals.
Other than material pleasures like humor, I think we can find
condolence
in that being something in nothing with a bleak evolutionary story is more grim than we feel it to be; the truth hurts but not as much as we can feel. We are worse off than we realize and we should be happy we don’t fully feel our meaningless depressing situation which is made sense of in an unintuitive (and thus gives the feeling of confusion) way
(I’m thinking mainly of the three-PILLAR existential theory).
In Holy Books I also tend to find what I’ll relate to you in an anecdote: I was sitting in the back-seat of a car on vacation in a country which I had fallen in love with, whilst winter was raging in my home country. The driver of the car asked if I wanted a hazelnut croissant. I thought what was more important of a topic was for me to whine about that I don’t ever want to leave this country, I want my vacation to last longer, I don’t want to go back to the darkness and snow. So I said “I don’t want to go back to Sweden 🙁 !!” and the driver asked “what does this have to do with the hazelnut croissant?”. I put my answer in a joke: “the connection between the two topics is very deep and significant, but it’s hard to explain: it’s mysterious – and that’s religion.” I tend to find, to say the least, unintuitive associations between concepts in holy books (not meant as jokes).
About Heaven again:
So true justice is impossibly unattainable, which means that this world is inherently unjust?
Yes it's unjust and that seems quite obvious. The other day I heard two people talking: "life can't be this shitty without there being a heaven - there must be a heaven to make life worthwhile", I didn't say anything because their illusion makes them happy but I was thinking: "I am SURE there is no heaven and I can PROVE it scientifically. I even know that the true nature of the situation is worse than we feel it to be (intellectually only can we realize exactly how bleak human life is (and my book is to a large extent so meaninglessness-giving and depressing that one can make jokes out of it)). The only reason to keep living is out of solidarity and because science can create an animal which is 100% happy throughout its lifetime (maybe 100 years from now)."
So heaven was just the divine carrot at the end of the rainbow which acts as a counterweight to the stick that is life?
Do I believe in God, Heaven, The Day of Judgement, etc? As much as I believe that “the top of the hierarchy (defined as “that of which all is part”) protects me” – I use it sometimes. But then if I analyze it, it kindof breaks down: into a donkey with a carrot regarding heaven:
I’m trying to translate all religious concepts (and did well with God and Soul) into scientific language. I can’t do Heaven as a scientific translation except by using this donkey picture – I’m sorry!
The only hope I have of there being a heaven for anyone in the future is that humanity genetically engineers a super-happy animal.
I did well by translating
Soul into scientific language (the body with the plans and the see’er of the body in the plans) and I did well with God (that of which all is part) because it’s one, it can’t be seen,
it’s the cause of everything...
But with Heaven I really can’t do any better than this donkey-picture, and I’m sad about it. I still use the concept Heaven but in the religious way, I don’t use it in the scientific way because it just gets me sad (but it’s funny at the same time).
I “believe in Heaven” in the religious way, but I don’t “believe in Heaven” in the scientific way. Humans are capable of such cognitive dissonance.
Meta-commentary on this book
If the purpose of this book is to unify across religious-differences and build more agreement and thus friendship/trust in the world, then the overall structure of having three parts should remain the same no matter how the course/book is presented:
first
the existential theory because it predicts that there ought to be a tiny DNA-strand somewhere,
then
evolution (because it’s a continuation off of the existential theory/part 1),
then
other thoughts like the circuitry related to religion.
If we focus on ways to teach part 1 of this book (the existential theory), one has three options:
begin from Descartes’ certain truth (I think and I am) and make small logical steps all the way up to anti-distinction (that of which all is part) and how distinction vs. anti-distinction –opposition proves that the sizerange is infinite.
begin from Nothingness (spacetime) which is there “a priori” (needs no prior justification) and is emptier than we can imagine it as. Then state that that spacetime is non-absurd/non-bizarre i.e. that for example the case is not that at one moment 1+1=2, then 1+1=5, then 1+1=241, then 1+1=2 again. 1+1=2 is a law of nature inherent in spacetime, and so is Pythagoras’ theorems about triangles (a triangle is not a sphere because the universe is non-absurd). The laws of nature state
d
so far already hint at Existence (energymass) but E=mc
2
is a law of nature that certainly explicitly requires Energymass. Where is Energymass first summoned? In the smallest spaces, thus we get a dense Big Bang throughout the entire sizerange.
begin with stating the three pillars of the existential theory: (1) an infinite sizerange (2) of energymasspacetime (3) in intertwinedness-separation-opposition.
Including all three ways to begin should convince everyone of that this world-view is valid.
The way I go about teaching this course is universal, and the latest thing I’ve noticed about my course is that the number 3 repeats in many places: there are three ways to start the course (Certain Truth, Nothingness, 3 Pillars of the Existential Theory), the existential theory has 3 pillars, the first evolutionary rules (before power/viruses emerge) are 3.
Extraterrestrials would notice the number 3 popping up all the time too.
The diagram
This is the logotype infinitely many extraterrestrials, basing it off of science, paint on their T-shirts, caps and other merchendize. We’ve already talked about the infinite sizerange and the evolutionary theory (the square and the triangle), but the additional third part aliens would add to the diagram is their diagrams of the brain: the different categories (large or small, 3 of them) of hard-wired circuits:
homeostatic circuits, social/external-circuits and circuitry that gets activated when the two other categories of circuits aren’t active (these are gathering resources, curiosity (expanding one’s world-view), planning how to get power, planning how to get reproduction).
In our planning-system we have serotonine (the red line) and dopamine (the blue line).
The number 3 is a magic number because
there are 3 ways to begin this universal course (nothingness, certain truth or 3 pillars of the existential theory), there are 3 pillars to the existential theory, there are 3 first evolutionary principles and there are 3 categories of evolved brain circuits (social/external, homeostatic and cortex-idle).
3 is the
most
universal digit.
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen, Sweden
War and Boredom
– Religious wars continue because this book isn’t known enough, and it is not known because it is “boring” i.e. causes feelings of meaninglessness, depression etc.
Author
yonis
Posted on
31/12/2016
17/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on War and Boredom
2 Nobel Prizes
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/Untitled-Project2.mp4
Author
yonis
Posted on
12/12/2016
14/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on 2 Nobel Prizes
V 2-4
V2-4
Author
yonis
Posted on
08/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on V 2-4
Existential theory (2)
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/We-are-evolution-2.mp4
Author
yonis
Posted on
07/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Existential theory (2)
Summary in video (10 min)
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/Untitled.mp4
Author
yonis
Posted on
05/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Summary in video (10 min)
Latest version of my book
Warrior of Boredom
The title of this book refers to that it is hard to get through this book. The reason why this new science (that I present in this book) hasn’t been discovered until I did is because it’s depressing, anxiety-giving and BORING. But the question is: does everyone agree on it? If they do, that changes the Israel-Palestine-conflict where the parties of God are vetoing “the holy land”. Religion is the biggest cause for hate in the world, as Hitchens said. My book defeats religion – it’s a minimalist theory that works completely – a theory of Everything: existence (why there is size itself), evolution – even thoughts on the methodology for doing politics.
Philosophy = honor,
but anxiety/depression and boredom. Religion = no honor,
but less anxiety/depression and less boredom.
The big picture, accounting of everything, conflicts with certain positive-thinking brain-tricks and with our bias toward ignoring some negative/depressing aspects of nature.
The first part of this book will be a more detailed discourse about the following paragraph:
Descartes proved that there is distinction (between thinker and thought) - what's the opposite of distinction: "that of which all is part" (Reality). Since we are stuck in Descarte's thinker and thought-realm we can't see Reality, nor can "whatever" not represent it, meaning that there's more to it than can be contemplated/represented. Since all objects we know of fit in a size-time-diagram, this argument must mean that there is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram - and this in turn leads us to an existential theory (a theory about why there is size in the first place).
I realize that’s too fast of a paragraph to convince everyone and thus I want to convince the readers of this book to be warrios or boredom and see all my arguments.
Lecture 1
Descartes
One of the aims of this course is to get EVERYONE to agree so that they have the same associations between scientific concepts.
There is no other proper way to accomplish this goal than by starting with certain truth, which was found by Descartes in the 1600s. He lived in a time where they believed in demons, Gods etc. so he postulated a thought experiment where he assumed an almighty demon was fooling him in everything he could be fooled in: what would remain as certain truth – what could he not be fooled in?
If he was being fooled, where would still be a “he” (or self) there to be fooled, meaning that the self certainly exists. A self is necessary for a self to be fooled.
Descartes had thus concluded his own existence.
Being fooled is thinking – thus thought exists. “There is thought” Descartes concluded as certain truth. The word “fooling” represents a thought-process.
Descartes found the starting-position for any inquiry about truth: we can know certainly that thinker and thought exists.
Distinction exists (a logical conclusion from the above)
Looking at what we´ve found as certain truth so far “from above” (meta), we can take the next logical step – adding a third factoid to our 2-statement (A and B above) starting position: that there is distinction (
between
thinker and thought). The fact that thinker and thought are two separate entities concluded to be certain truth
s
through two
different
logical pathway
s
lets us conclude that “distinction exists”
. There are what Chinese philosophy calls “the ten thousand things” (referring to the world) – there are at least two (three if we include “distinction” as th
e third thing) certain entities, and empirically we know there are “ten thousand things” (not taking the number 10 000 literally but just referring to multiplicity).
First universal diagram
We can draw the thinker and thought and distinction between them as two dots with a line between them on a piece of paper (fig. 1).
Now we have something all religions agree on
– we´ve drawn up ideas and associations between them. Everyone ought to have the same associations (explanatory thoughts) between the concepts we´ve looked at so far.
We have, if you will – in figure 1 – a universal diagram.
Reality
We have the capability to conglomerate many separate entities under the rubric of a single category. If we use this capability to collect the “ten thousand things” (distinct entities) we´ve found so far into a single thing, we ought to give that thing a word/name. Its definition can be “that of which all is part” and “the opposite of separation/distinction”. I will use the word Reality to refer to this all-encompassing thing.
In lecture 2 I will present three proofs for that “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, but for now we can draw (adding to figure 1) a dot with a cross over it – the cross to symbolize that the dot itself is a false representation of Reality because we (the observer/self/thinker) should be part of that dot. See fig 2.
Thinking about what we´ve got so far
Thinking about what we´ve got so far (fig. 2) it’s a bundle of associations which make universal inter-religious (all religions agree on it) knowledge with both words and pictures.
In the next lecture I present why the line in fig 2 (see fig 3) represents the opposition/antagonism/disagreement/contraposition/divergence/variance between the two sides of the paper; between “thinker and thought” on one side of the paper and “Reality (that of which all is part; the opposite of separation)” on the other side of the paper.
Worth noting now is that the left side of the paper represents separation/distinction whilst the right side of the paper represents the opposite of separation/distinction – both are legitimate ideas: thinker and thought – and distinction – is certain truth based on Descartes and we all know which idea we refer to when talking about the all-encompassing [that of which all is part] Reality.
In the next lecture we will talk about why the line in fig. 3 makes it so that we can´t see Reality – I will present three proofs like in a crime case, and we will talk about what we can see if we can´t see Reality.
Making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far
1
See fig. 1 again: it´s our starting-point and the thinking that occurs in it happens in Descartes “realm of mind”; it is the mind´s realm (the left side of the paper) in which the thinking happens, and one thing we talk about is Reality on the right side of the paper in fig 3. Since the line in fig. 3 represents both the legitimacy of the ideas on both sides of the paper, and simultaneously the opposition between separation/distinction (on the left side of the paper) and [the opposite of separation/distinction] on the right side of the paper. That opposition is important and I will show its significance in lecture 2.
2
Starting from Descartes realm (of if you will: assuming that all we know is what we know for certain), we have the capability to state that there is a single Reality of which all is part – so even though we see separation we must grant that that separation (all entities) fits into a category we call Reality. There is a unifying whole even though the human mind (Descartes realm) is limited in its ways when it tries to contemplate Reality.
Not only is there the map-territory distinction (which will be presented as one out of three proofs in lecture 2), but there is also a more fundamental opposition between distinction and its opposite (there is a more fundamental opposition between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3). Not only are we stuck in the map-territory-distinction-realm but we also can conclude that no representation (regardless of the mind) is equal to Reality (on a more fundamental level than the map-territory-problem).
Representation is done in the brain using neurons and in a computer using electrons, but there is no reason why the most distant atom or quark couldn´t be proposed to be a symbol for [that of which all is part] – and even in that brainless scenario we will see in lecture 2 that “that of which all is part cannot be represented”. The map-territory-distinction is just proof/evidence number two in lecture 2 (for that we cannot see Reality and thus, since we do see/represent something, there must be more to Reality than can be represented i.e. the size-time-diagram (presented in lecture
2) is infinite along both axes.
Proof 3 in lecture 2 removes the brain from the equation and still proves that there is more to Reality than can be seen/represented/symbolized (using any means/any method – even without a brain), and since some representation is obviously (since we know that there are minds) possible, there must be more than can be represented/contemplated i.e. the size-axis is infinite and the time-axis is infinite in that two-axis diagram.
3
Both sides of the paper in fig. 3 are legitimate ideas. But still they are opposites (separation on one side and the opposite of separation on the other side). How can two derived-from-logic sides of the paper be opposites but still both be legitimate?
Usually opposition – like between Democrats and Republicans – means that one is right and the other is wrong; they can´t both simultaneously be right: you can´t meaningfully vote for both parties at the same time.
The case is different between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3: both sides are right and they are opposites.
There is a single Reality and there is multiplicity in distinction.
What does this mean? That there is more to the size-time-diagram than anything could represent – any representation fails (you can think of some
examples/suggestions for how to represent [that of which all is part]/[the opposite of separation]) – and thus the axes on the size-time-diagram are infinite. This is a hither to unpresented fact in science – it is new science: some of the best scientists ignorantly believe that the size-range is limited/finite.
4
We have quite a few associations and symbols in fig. 3 which must be agreed upon, and here I´m using the word “must” in the sense that “by the rules of logic X must be true”. Other civilizations throughout the infinitely many galaxies there are use the exact same ideas (but in a different language) and have the same associations between them (that there are infinitely many galaxies is derived from that the size-axis in the size-time-diagram is infinite). There is distinction as the third truth to be added to Descartes two fundamental truths (thinker and thought exist), and all that is opposed to (on the other side of the paper in fig. 3) to the all-encompassing Reality which is defined using at least two definitions: that of which all is part and the opposite of separation.
I´m tri-lingual but I write the same ideas and associate them in the same ways no matter which language I write in – its universal science beginning from certain truth. On other planets that have civilizations my writings in this book ought to match up quite near to the writings creating the same lecture series based on universal science that I´m creating
– “alien”/exo-planet
lecture series proceed, beginning from certain fact, through logical steps as I do.
5
[Thinker and thought] (certain truth) and thus distinction/separation are associated through negation/opposition to the right side of the paper in figure 3: Reality. The left side is not the right side just like separation is not its opposites. Both being legitimate ideas, though, connects them in the way that thinker and thought (and all other distinct entities) are in the category Reality.
Even though Reality and distinction are opposites, distinction dwells in (as a sub-entity within the category) Reality.
The associations between the left and right sides of the paper in figure 3 are both united through the notion “opposition” and through the notion that distinction is inherent in Reality (Reality being the opposite of distinction
because we have all-encompassing and its opposite: composite parts).
6
It is certainly true that all is part of a single Reality; but it is equally true that in every observation there is an observer and hence distinction (between thinker and thought). We see separate entities is as true as that the self that we are is not in front of us – but everything we see (thought/object) is in front of us.
That is evidence 1 in lecture 2 (not a proof, but a mere suggestion/evidence that [that of which all is part cannot be observed] and thus there is more to Reality than our concept of [infinitely much].
All we know about Reality has two properties: a size and a time. Size and time are two axes on a diagram, and thus all we know fits into the size-time-diagram (every object or location in space has a size and time).
There is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram because all suggested representors for Reality fail
(for three reasons taken up in lecture 2).
7
All
bundles of associations in this chapter “making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far”
are written in order to create some universal brain structures (universal because
science is the same everywhere (on all exo-planets), and their brains make the same associations too eventually). It´s not some random bundle of associations nor did I randomly present random ideas.
I assume the brain structure created by understanding this book is a replica of something derived from science; a replica of brain structures on the infinitely many other civilization-bearing planets. It´s a universal “ideology”, if you will.
Everyone has a possibility of sharing it in agreement – and future lectures will add a whole lot of complexity to it; agreement tends to build friendship so study is a way of bringing more peace to the world.
Once the full world-view is presented throughout this book, it´s a way of pacifying the world.
8
We have two brain-halves: one linguistic and one visual. So far we´ve both drawn pictorial representations and connected words – both brain-halves have been working. The connections across corpus collosum (which sits between the brain-halves and connects them) that connect a linguistic narrative/explanation to the pictorial representations are one day found in all humans thanks to science. Our brains are becoming more as science has a propensity to make them be.
This course itself, since it begins with certain truths and builds upon it logically, is a universal course (to the best of my ability).
The brain cells that constitute the negation (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 3) or opposition are not the same kind of cells (they are inhibitory neurons) that connect thinker with though as both being certain truths (but the thinker is not the thought and thus has inhibitory cells making that brain-structure work too
(what you are is not in front of you;
what you are is not visible).
Since both Reality and [what you are]/self/observer/thinker are invisible the brain might erroneously and spontaneously try to associate them, so a brain-structure is needed to inhibit that association (and replace it with a more complex explanation). That spontaneous but erroneous association is something all thinking animals throughout the universe evolved to do, and the inhibition of it through culture/civilizing/science is universally available within complex enough civilizations throughout the universe.
As you can see the brain structures responsible for doing this thing are quite complex, but also universal and thus accessible to all humans, and predictably will someday be in all humans (fostering agreement, thus friendship, thus peace).
Lecture 2
Perceive, apprehend, notice are synonyms for our representing ability, but I will use the word “see” or “observe” to refer to all of these. The goal of this lecture is to prove the statement “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, Reality being defined as “that of which all is part”. In other words: we cannot see Reality, and thus there is more to Reality than even can be contemplated (i.e. infinitely much).
I will build this lecture like a criminal court case: I will present three proofs for that we cannot see Reality i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated i.e. (since we can contemplate anything (right or wrong)) Reality is infinite.
Since anything/everything we know about Reality has some size and time, it fits into a size-time-diagram. See fig. 4.
In fig. 4 size is represented along the vertical axis and time along the horizontal axis. The objects humans see in everyday life (from the horizon to a single cell as one “pixel” in our visual field) are marked in “the human range”.
See fig 5.
In fig. 5 I´ve drawn the same diagram as in fig. 4 but this time with infinity-symbols in each corner of the squareical size-time-diagram. Two infinite axes become a square.
Proof number 3 in our “court case” for proving that the size-time-diagram (Reality) is infinite has us imagine the unobservable separatenessless Reality and ask whether there is a maximum or minimum size to/in it (a maximum/minimum being separateness while we are talking about the opposite of separation). This is again to confirm that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes.
The line we drew in fig. 4 was for separating the two sides of the paper; opposing “thinker and thought” (distinction) with its opposite: one all-encompassing non-distinction Reality. That opposition-line is what this lecture is about since it proves that the two sides of the paper are
separate/opposing realms and we are stuck in one realm as long as we are observers (because observation is separation/distinction (thinker and thought)).
Proving that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes is new science because it poses the question: what happened before the Big Bang (14 billion years ago), and it presents one pillar of our existential theory: that each size is the reason for each next and previous size, and the size axis is infinite, meaning the “beginning” of the relationship between sizes keeps retreating into infinity the more we contemplate the range of the size axis.
When I presented fig. 4 for the first time I drew a cross over the dot symbolizing Reality for the plain reason that we (as observers) should be part of that dot, and by the very nature of us being separate (and the dot representing the opposite of separation) we should draw a cross over it symbolizing that we cannot see it.
The main proof though is that even if all observers were dead there´d still be, inherent and fundamental in nature, the opposition between distinction and distinction´s opposite (the two sides of the paper in fig. 4). The line is an opposition-line and it is more fundamental than being dependent on humans/observers – it refers to all representation whether it’s using/including humans or not. I am, in other words, not talking about the map-territory distinction (which symbolizes that humans have mental maps and not the real world per se; like Kant said: we have “the thing” and not “the thing itself”). Proof 2 – the opposition-line between the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 – is not subjective: it is true that we live with the map-territory-distinction but even if I died there´d still be separate things (chairs separate from cups), that kind of separation is not dependent on me/observers. Simultaneously the flipside of the coin (the other side of the paper in fig. 4) is true too: all is one single Reality (the opposite of separation). Proof 2, in other words, should not be interpreted as signifying the map-territory distinction (human subjectivity) but instead a fundamental opposition in the universe.
If we do not see Reality, then what do we see? Everything we see fits into the size-time-diagram, and since the opposition-line in fig. 4 shows that there is a fundamental rule that states, in 3 different proofs, that Reality is infinite / there is more than can even be contemplated / there is more than even non-subjective representation can represent.
Proof number 1 is really weaker than a “proof” – it´s more like evidence. It wouldn´t hold up in a court but it is a way of stating what the other proofs too point towards. Proof 1 is what we saw when presenting figure 4: any dot representing Reality is an incorrect representation because the observer should be part of the object – the thinker should be part of the thought. It denies Cartesian separation and thus is untrue, meaning that anything we draw on the right side of the paper in fig. 4 is incorrect.
We can contemplate anything: we can speculate about what´s smaller than quantum physics, or even what´s smaller than that, etc. into infinity. We are probably wrong, but any contemplation/representation counts as a contemplation – and since we know that, whether right or wrong as our contemplations may be, there is more to Reality than can be contemplated, it follows that there must be infinitely much to Reality. Since all we know about Reality fits into a size-time-diagram, the minimalist approach is to state that it´s the size-time-diagram that is infinite.
This warrants two new words: the knowable/known size-range and the infinite size-range. The knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range. Since Einstein unified space (size) and time, one cannot be infinite without the other one being the same. Science today doesn´t know whether there was a “before” to the Big Bang or not (whether time was created at the Big Bang), but now we know that the Big Bang is just an event on an infinite time axis. In a future lecture we will talk about how/why the Big Bang recreates (happens over and over).
We talked about universal diagrams (and universal brain-structures) in lecture 1. The size-time-diagram is one major universal diagram. A lot of detail can be added to it because all fields of science fit into it. The infinity-symbols on each axis of the squareical diagram are drawn, based on science, on exo-planets with advanced enough civilizations.
This lecture is about proving that [that of which all is part] (the opposite of separation) i.e. Reality cannot be observed/represented, and that this fact is true irrespective of whether we are observers or dead, and applying this to the size-time-diagram (which gets its infinity-symbols into the squareical diagram).
Proof number 2 (the main proof) is the oppositional approach between Reality and distinction, and it is not subjective because Reality and Reality´s opposite exist even if we were dead. Proof number 3 is about imagining (even though no imagination is it) Reality as a big gray (because energymass is white and spacetime is black) solid, in which we know no observer should be (because observation is separation) – does it have separation i.e. a biggest and a smallest size? No, because such distinctions are not in the opposite of distinction (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 4).
I´ve mentioned universal associations in the brain / exo-planet science, so talking about the size-time-diagram we can add more universal notions to it: why did I draw upwards on the size axis as larger and downward as smaller? Why is the time-axis horizontally drawn instead of vertically? The diagram works even if we would define the vertical axis as time and the horizontal axis as size – so why do we draw size vertically and time horizontally? Is it universal i.e. on other planets or just a human convention like writing from left to right in English-speaking countries and right to left in Arabic-speaking countries?
Evolution has it so that during the history of science telescopes look upward and microscopes look downward. This would be the case on other planets too: they turn their heads upward to see the large and downward (onto a table) to see the small; the opposite can´t be true on any planet. Thus we get the size axis´ standard (of upward being larger) from evolution / the history of science. I use the word “standard” because it comes from evolution rather than being more fundamentally hard-wired into the universe such as the fact that the size-time-diagram is a square with infinity symbols. That the size-time-diagram is a square is not a standard – it is something stronger than that. The fact that we represent time on the vertical axis (and upward as larger) comes from a weaker source: tradition (even though that same tradition is true on all planets; evolution, in this regard, happens the same on all planets that end up with civilizations).
We thus have added standards or weak conventions (derived from history) in addition to having strong diagrams like the size-time-diagram being a square. The distinction between the two is made based on science and is thus made on exo-planets.
Scientists are looking for exo-planets that bear civilizations. If the size-range is infinite – as we´ve proven that it is – then each particular size (like the human range in fig. 5) is infinite too; if the largest is infinitely large then there is, considering the size of a human, an infinite distance in any direction that that human could find itself in. This makes civilizations on other planets a must, not an assumption. The known/knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range, and within the known size-range there is a range in which evolution occurs (between the smallest cells and the biggest organisms), and since we´ve proven that there are infinitely many objects within/of that size-range, then there must be infinitely many locations in which evolution occurs.
In the next lecture we will bind together the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 (distinction and distinction´s opposite; “thinker and thought” opposing Reality) with E=mc
2
(energymasspacetime) and with the infinity of the size-time axes, into a single existential theory which is a rival to “God created earth in 6 days…” The existential theory is a minimalist account for why there is a sizescale in the first place, and why there is something (energymass) rather than nothing (spacetime). It reminds me of this passage: “HITCHENS: In other words, as the great physicist Laplace said when he demonstrated his working model (his orrery, as it’s called) of the solar system to the emperor and Napoleon said, “Well I see there’s no God in this system,” and Laplace said, “Well, Your Majesty, it works without that assumption.””
In this chapter I´ve presented three proofs for that the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in it i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated; we do represent something but however we choose to represent (even representations that can be proposed as thought-experiments if we were dead) we do not represent Reality i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality. Are there any counter-arguments saying that the size-time-diagram is finite? I built this lecture like a court case and I´d like to hear the opposing side. There are no arguments that oppose what I´ve proven so far.
Lecture 3
E=mc
2
E=mc
2
as an equation is only used in relativistic scenarios such as very high speed or very high energy, but since speed is a continuum the equation is true at slower speeds. There is a difference between the equation being applicable (being needed while solving equations) and it being true; it is always true everywhere but it is not needed for equations except in special scenarios.
An example of the equation being true everywhere and always is this: nuclear power-plants turn mass (kilograms) into energy (joule), so that if you input 1 kg of uranium-mass you get out 99.9999 kg of waste products – some of the mass turned into energy which lights our light-bulbs. The atoms that lost some weight (that weight was converted into energy) are atoms just like other kinds of atoms, for example in autumn leaves. If you´d drop leaves into the core of the sun, the sun´s nuclear furnace would turn mass in the leaves into energy (light). Hence all objects are subject to the E=mc
2
-rule, which states that energy (E) equals mass (m). This warrants the word energymass because they are no longer two distinct things – they are but different manifestations of the same thing. In the brain
energymass should be a single idea whilst the concepts “energy and mass” refers to two different forms of a single idea.
Verbs and adjectives tend to refer to energy (shining, running, etc.) while nouns refer to mass (body, tree, etc.) E=mc
2
states that the two (verbs/adjectives and nouns) are together in a single equation. Although only applicable in relativistic scenarios (the role of relativism becomes close to zero in everyday human events, except that our light-bulbs shine because mass turns into energy and the sun can makes leaves into light), E=mc
2
is in a “philosophical” sense true everywhere and always just like Pythagoras’s theorem about triangles remains “philosophically true” even where there are no physical triangles. You wouldn´t say 1=1 is not true in empty space just because there are no objects there to count as “1”.
In addition to energymass being a single concept (and not two distinct ones), spacetime gets added into the mix by the c
2
-part of the equation. c is the speed of light (km/h) and thus a distance (space) over time – spacetime! Energymass (E=m) and spacetime (c
2
) should in the brain be represented by a single idea which we can call energymasspacetime. This harkens back to the previous lectures about Reality, which is a synonym for energymasspacetime. Einstein invented the equation E=mc
2
and thus unified in it energymass with spacetime – and synonyms for energymass are “existence” or “1” while synonyms for spacetime are “non-existence”, “emptiness”, “nothing” and “zero”. There is no more to be considered regarding Reality than energymasspacetime; energymasspacetime involves everything (energymass) and nothing (spacetime) so there is nothing more to be considered/added to Reality – Reality is energymasspacetime; everything is included into Reality once we have defined Reality as energymasspacetime.
The Existential Theory
Each culture seems to have a creation myth (such as genesis) – the creation of the cosmos/world/Reality is something humans have invented hypotheses for during millennia. The stories answer the question “why are we here?”
The true answer is unintuitive. First of all: why is there any particular size? What justifies, say, the size of a molecule? The answer is: the smaller and the larger (the rest of the size-range). Atoms justify a molecule and a molecule exhibits a place for atoms to live in: justifies atoms. Humans need an earth to dwell on (the earth is larger) and humans are made of cells (cells are smaller). Each size bears a relationship upon each other size – the smaller justify the larger and the larger justify the smaller. Since the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all four corners of the square (because of the proof where we had two sides of a paper), the size-range is infinite i.e. the pattern of justification between/amongst sizes continues into the infinitely large and infinitely small. What the ancients called “the first cause” keeps retreating into infinity size-wise the more we contemplate it. The size-range is like a fractal: you can keep zooming in or out infinitely much, and the question “why is there this particular object that I see” has its answer in the relationship between all the sizes: justification. Infinite justification is the reason why there is a size-range at all. But there is more that is needed for a full-fledged existential theory: two more factors play their roles.
Spacetime is emptier than we can imagine/represent it. We (and all representeurs) are energymass and thus are the opposite of spacetime. We could let a piece of empty space represent spacetime, but as soon as we use energymass (such as our brains) to do so, we´ve lost the truly empty nature of
spacetime: it is unimaginably empty. Any bundle of neurons, no matter how we wire it, is still the opposite of what they want to represent when they want to present us with spacetime. It is therefore useful to have two concepts for spacetime: (1) our simplest intuition of spacetime and (2) additional defining language explaining that spacetime is emptier than (1). This is how exoplanet civilizations would wire their brains regarding the concept “spacetime” too, just because it’s the most accurate science they can manage.
Just like energy and mass are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon, energymass and spacetime are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon. What does it mean for spacetime to be bundled together with (intertwined with) energymass? Everything exists as/in/because of nothing; 1 exists in 0; energymass and spacetime are together in the E=mc
2
-equation. Where could energymass/existence exist? In nothingness. Just like sizes justify one another, spacetime justifies energymass.
The last question that remains, after we have justification between sizes in an infinite size-range, and that all points in the size-time-diagram are made of energymasspacetime (and energymass is justified by it being in spacetime), is the objective fact that there both is a single Reality (the right side of the paper) and there´s its opposite: distinction (between, say, thinker and thought).
The existential theory builds on three “pillars”/fundamental ideas:
An infinite sizescale,
Energymasspacetime as in the equation E=mc
2
Distinction between distinction itself and distinction´s opposite (see fig. 1, 2, 3):
Between distinction (the left side of the paper, our 2 certain truths: I exist and there is thought) and Reality (the opposite of distinction; one Reality (not plural)) there is a line that demarcates distinction/opposition.
Putting it all into one phrase we might say: “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime with opposition between distinction and Oneness”. At its core it´s three ideas (infinite size-time-diagram, energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
), separation and intertwinedness (the two sides of the paper)). On exoplanets they would state their reason for their own existence using these three ideas too, because taken together they explain all that needs to be explained: first thing that comes to mind is that in the stated existential theory there must be a reproducing shape (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape; a DNA-strand) somewhere. If the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all three corners, then evolution ought to occur somewhere (and be made of energymass in spacetime, while being separate/distinct in a single intertwined Reality).
Most creation-myths have a quite simple (one-pillared) and mundane story: for example genesis just states that God created Reality (that of which all is part) in 6 days and rested on the 7
th
. The scientific rival to all such creation stories is a three-pillared theory – we can´t make it any simpler (we can´t make it one-pillared) and the same would be the case on exoplanets: they too can only break it down to three interconnected ideas/pillars/fundaments, so in thinking this way we share a common intellectual history with exoplanet civilizations advanced enough to figure out this existential theory.
On a test on this subject a question might be: “what are the three pillars of the existential theory?” – the question can´t be “what is the most important pillar in the existential theory?” All pillars are equally important but constitute as distinct ideas as E=mc
2
is from infinite size, or the separation-intertwinedness-opposition (fig. 3).
This three-pillared creation story – the sum of these three chapters – is built upon logic: it includes certain truths like “I think and I exist” (distinction/separation), its opposite (Reality for which we have three proofs for that it can´t be observed/seen/contemplated i.e. the size-time-diagram is infinite), E=mc
2
which unifies nothing/spacetime with existence/energymass, and the relationship between any two sizes (justification along the infinite size-range). Every one of these ideas relates very closely to Descartes´ certain truth, meaning we can be sure of the ideas themselves – and they together build up a minimalist existential theory which needs no further logic to explain everything there is.
Having an infinite size-range has a predictive quality to it too – it makes a prediction: there ought to be evolution (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar mass) somewhere in the diversity we see throughout even the known size-range.
Though as non-intuitive as the 3-pillar existential theory may be to our evolved brains who want a single conclusion, exoplanet civilizations have the same limits and biases as us: they too are stuck with three pillars in a single theory to make the theory explainable. Science is creating universal (exoplanet) neural pathways in our brains. We should embrace the fact that by being non-intuitive but true, this science wires our brain based on science and thus universally. It is the way (the wiring) that all planets are headed to if they´re into science. It´s a universal world-view. We´re thinking like aliens.
In current scientific debates the religious will argue that faith (in a dogma) is needed to (what they call) “understand” the existence of the universe. If confronted with my theory (these lectures) they´d have to agree that logic makes their God unnecessary as a pillar of creation. In the best case scenario God is simply a synonym for Reality (because Reality is “that of which all is part” and thus God ought to be part of it too, and all we know about Reality is that it is energymass in spacetime and separation in intertwinedness).
Having an explanation – the negative side of it is it being three-pillared and unintuitive, the positive side of it being that it accounts for all of Reality and predicts evolution – further justifies the saying “a God of the gaps” (meaning the more we understand the less we need God). Now all that remains to be understood – again in an unintuitive but identical to exoplanets -way – is how, on an infinite time-line, the Big Bang (denseness) recreates and fades away into sparseness (black holes removing energymass and dark energy creating more space until no galaxies are anymore visible).
Lecture 4
The beginning of the Big Bang
I have a hard time imagining how the universe can reach complete emptiness, but it wouldn´t be the first time the universe´s nature surpasses human intuition. In the history of science stars were observed to not move relative to one another on the night sky, and this was argued to prove that the size of the universe was much smaller than the now known size – it was argued that the universe would be “unreasonably big” if the stars didn´t seem to move relative to one another as the earth moved because they were so far away.
If only enough time is needed for the universe to become empty, then we get the starting scenario which is most reasonable: we start with emptiness (spacetime). Again, spacetime is emptier than our concept for it because we (and our concepts) are made of energymass.
If you move your hand one meter (from position 1 to position 2), the laws of nature that make your hand make sense were already in place in the space of position 2 before you moved your hand there. It´s not like the universe/spacetime was absurd in location 2 and only started to make sense regarding hands when you moved your hand there. We do not impact the laws of nature in such ways; instead the laws of nature are simultaneously and equally true at all locations and all times. In other words: Pythagoras’s theorem is true even in locations where there are no objects whatsoever, but the theorem is only applicable (to be applied) to triangles. In empty space there are no objects and thus no triangles, but Pythagoras´s theorem is true there anyhow – it does not suddenly become true (switch from being untrue to true) when a triangle is imagined or physically moved there. This applies to E=mc
2
too, which is just as much of a law of nature as Pythagoras´s theorem. E=mc
2
is true everywhere and always, though humans only apply (use) the equation in certain scenarios. Where triangles can be (in spacetime) there is also E=mc
2
. Laws of nature are fundamental and inherent in spacetime and do not come about depending on events (though our application/use of any particular equation is dependent on which event we´re analyzing).
There is distinction between the practical use of equations (to solve problems or understand a phenomenon) and the core nature of spacetime having laws of nature in it. Spacetime is a no-nonsense spacetime – we live in a rational (laws of nature-abiding) universe.
One law being E=mc
2
and another one being “if it is said it must exist” (meaning energymass can´t be mentioned in the laws of nature of spacetime without energymass existing), we get spacetime to summon energymass if the starting-point was complete emptiness. “If energymass is mentioned it must be summoned” (it is mentioned in E=mc
2
) is true because it would be a nonsense universe if it “talks” about energymass without there being any – just infinite space for eternity with laws of nature regarding energymass, but never any energymass appearing/being present. It would be a nonsense universe if energymass it mentioned but never exists. It would be akin to the universe telling lies (having all these rules like E=mc
2
but never applying them to anything), or the universe babbling gibberish (having inapplicable laws of nature).
Thus, E=mc
2
being a core property of spacetime itself and the “no gibberish”-rule applying, energymass must logically be summoned – but how and where? Extremely dense i.e. everywhere, in the smallest spaces, simultaneously. Why? Our starting-point is spacetime, which needs no prior justification because it is the opposite of existence: it doesn´t exist – it is emptier than our neurons make it out to be. In it Einstein´s theory of relativity is true, meaning that there is no center point (or in other words: all points are the center) so there is no center to the Big Bang. Another way of seeing it is that as soon as there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification), E=mc
2
became true in all locations (in the smallest spaces) simultaneously – no point in space was before another in having E=mc
2
be true in it. Spacetime having E=mc
2
as a core property has E=mc
2
be true everywhere simultaneously; once we have the launching-condition of empty spacetime, through E=mc
2
, energymass is summoned everywhere simultaneously.
This “everywhere” is all things within an event horizon, meaning that things moving away faster than the speed of light (due to dark energy/accelerating cosmic expansion) are not within our event
horizon: they are not part of what can be reasonably called “our 3-dimensional space” (from our location). Things are not part of our universe once their speed hits faster than the speed of light – and many locations, within the boundaries of their respective event horizons, will one day have all energymass moving away from them at speeds faster than the speed of light (this is just the observed fact of accelerating cosmic expansion). Such a finite space with no energymass within its event horizon (all energymass moving away faster than the speed of light) would constitute “completely empty space” i.e. our starting-point for the Big Bang (energymass being summoned due to E=mc
2
).
Consider an infinite size-range - it is made of energymasspacetime: if we draw it as the Y-axis on a diagram, there can´t be a region/length in it (such as the knowable size-range) which is completely empty forever. See fig. 6.
Because of the rules E=mc
2
and “if it is mentioned it must be summoned”/”no-nonsense universe” are true throughout the infinite size-range, there can´t be a region with just spacetime (with its laws of nature) because the laws of spacetime mention energymass; spacetime is inherently tied to and intertwined with energymass – existence and non-existence go together (at all sizes). There would be no logical breaking-point (a particular size) where energymasspacetime transitions into being just spacetime for a range of sizes and then transitions back into energymasspacetime; there is no logical breaking-point where the implications of E=mc
2
(the implication being: energymass and spacetime are in the same equation) stop to be true. The transition seen in fig. 6 is impossible (there is no “empty region”). Having an empty region would be akin to zooming into the decimals of pi and seeing no numbers for a specific array of decimals: 3.14159ÄÄÄÄ265359... The Ä´s can´t be there: it´s a continuous sequence of decimal numbers. There is no break/”empty region” in the continuous decimals of pi just as there is no region of the size-range that can be empty of energymass.
In this chapter I´ve written something akin to “
first
there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification unless you consider that the size-axis of the size-time-diagram is infinite),
then
there was E=mc
2
,
then
there was energymass summoned into the smallest spaces available (available = considered to be within an event horizon and empty)”. This harkens back to previous lectures´ talk about “alien logic” (how exoplanets think). To have it make sense to our brains we use the time-
distinctions “first, then and then” but the real distinction is not in time but in steps in a sequence of logic. In other words all the mentioned steps happened simultaneously to start the Big Bang: E=mc
2
was true as soon as there was spacetime, and as soon as there was that, energymass appeared as not to make the universe absurd (by it talking gibberish or it having an empty region like in fig. 6).
The end of the Big Bang
Telescopes observe that “space is being born” i.e. that the distances between clumps of energymass (galaxies) are getting larger, and at an accelerating pace too. Not only does the Hubble law state that an object a
million light
-
years
away would be receding from us at 21 km/sec and at double the distance twice the speed, but the law states that that speed (for example 21 km/sec a million light years away) is increasing. This is called accelerating cosmic expansion. It means that from our galaxy, when/if we look into the sky trillions of years in the future, we´d see no trace of any other galaxy let alone the cosmic microwave background (because their speeds have passed the speed of light and thus went beyond the event horizon). Once that object a million light years away from us which today is racing away at 21 km/sec reaches 299792 km/sec (the speed of light), it will pass from being within our event horizon to being outside our sphere of events.
This empties our universe or as Hitchens put it: “nothingness is coming”. Once that nothingness comes we have our starting point where we run through the logic of E=mc
2
–> “if it is mentioned it must exist/be summoned” (in order for the universe not to talk gibberish or the infinite size-range not to have a break in it) –> energymass begins as dense (because of relativity and because E=mc
2
is true everywhere simultaneously/equally).
We observe that nothingness (within event horizons) is coming, and beginning from nothingness there is unintuitive logic that has a predictive quality to it: the Big Bang should start dense. This theory works well with lecture 2´s proofs for that “there is more to Reality than can be represented” (the size-time-diagram is infinite) because size is essentially space, and space and time are intertwined into a single spacetime – hence: if size/space is infinite then time must be infinite too. In other words we have reoccurring Big Bangs interspersed along the time-axis of our size-time-diagram. As soon as a region bound by an event horizon becomes empty we have the universe´s no-nonsense-laws kicking in and E=mc
2
summons energymass (in the smallest sizes that are empty equally/simultaneously).
The sequence of consecutive Big Bangs´ beginnings (emptiness leading to energymass being summoned) and ends (accelerating cosmic expansion speeding things past a point´s event horizon and emptiness being summoned) are as infinite as the time-axis proved to be based on lecture 2´s proofs. Proving (in lecture 2) that spacetime is infinite fits perfectly with the reoccurring Big Bangs (when somethingness becomes emptiness and then emptiness summons somethingness).
There will in other words, between the beginning of a Big Bang and the end of that same Big Bang, be life within the conscious/human size-range (the different locations of that size already being infinitely many, see fig. 4).
Each size along the size-axis is defined as “3-dimensional infinite space” meaning there is infinitely much life with access to universal science (i.e. some version of this lecture-series), and within our region (bound by an event horizon) there is life between the beginning and end of Big Bangs. In addition I have hard to believe that a reproducing shape (and thus evolution) only occurs in only
one
size-range (the, for humans, knowable size-range) in an infinite size-range: there ought to be many sub-size-ranges as part of the infinite size-range where evolution occurs and can reach scientific knowledge. All life mentioned above, if they reach scientific understanding, would concur on the existential theory presented in these lectures (especially lecture 3 – the three pillars/foundations/ideas which together become a minimalist theory for why there is the infinite size-range of energymasspacetime in the first place).
This is not only exoplanet science – it is science between Big Bangs and it is science in regions of the size-axis far away (in size) from our knowable size-range. See fig. 7.
Summary
First we looked at Descartes’ ”thought exists” and ”the self exists”, claimed that it was two valid statements and pointed out the distinction between them. On the other side of the paper we wanted to represent anti-distinction (the opposite of distinction) defined as “that of which all is part” (Reality), and realized that since thinker/thought is stuck on the left side of the paper we can’t represent Reality. This is not only Kant’s “the thing is not the thing itself (the mental map is not the real territory)” but more importantly whatever cannot be taken to represent “that of which all is part” i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality.
All we know about Reality (atoms, humans, galaxies) fit into a size-time-diagram (every object has a size and a time), so the minimalist approach combining the above paragraph with this one is to use the first paragraph to prove that the size-time diagram has infinite
axes. This in turn leads to an existential theory which can be summed up as “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime” – and it has a predictive quality to it: somewhere in such an existence there would be a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape and thus we get reproduction/evolution.
So far we’ve looked at the theory of why size itself exists, why there is something rather than nothing – an existential theory beginning from certain truth and logically building its way up all the way to predicting evolution.
Part 2: Evolution
My explanation of evolution focuses on how important disease and bullying (power) was for evolution.
Power
means that
fish
were
fighting fish breeding more agressive fish = dinosaurs, then wolfpacks with an alpha male.
But even before and after those eras in evolution the rule of power was in play.
In part one we had an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime (including the intertwinedness-separation-opposition and the time-axis with repeating Big Bangs perpendicular to the size-axis) that predicts a reproducing shape i.e. a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape: reproduction in an infinite size-range.
This infinite size-range predicts reproduction.
Part one was about why there is a sizescale of energymasspacetime: the answers are that the sizescale is infinite and that energymass is in spacetime. It predicts that there should be a reproducing shape: say that it is a triangle which gathers surrounding lines into a similar triangle – then it has reproduced itself. The products of this reproduction obey three rules: directly when there was reproduction three rules came into play, I´ve listed them below as 1, 2, 3 but they are not in order (they came simultaneously):
1:
There is life and death: those who survive survive and those who die are not in the game anymore. “The surviving survive”. It´s so simple – we see it in everyday life today. But everything in evolution will come back to these three rules so we might as well do the banal and bring them up.
So directly when there was a reproducing shape - so in our part of the size-range a DNA-strand which split in the middle and became two DNA-strands – the copy either survived or died.
2: The second rule is that the number of offspring has significance. That is to say: if you get one child or five children or ten children, there is a difference between those numbers – and in evolution it´s a benefit to have more children. One can also have zero children, and that is approximately like being dead.
Some would say that evolution´s meaning (the main task of life) is to make more offspring – that it´s the scientific meaning of life – Nature´s meaning: to reproduce. But I would answer that evolution makes more offspring (that´s reproduction) and making more offspring gives evolutionary benefits, but Nature itself does not care – it does not care about whether we nuke ourselves or not. There is no God that looks upon us and cares. Even reproduction becomes meaningless in the larger perspective. But in evolution it has significance whether one has zero offspring or ten offspring.
Rule number two (number of offspring matters) just as simple as rule number 1 (that there is life and death; that some live and some die).
The third rule that appered... – well all three rules appeared simultaneously directly when there was reproduction in this sizerange. The third rule is that:
3: There is mutation in every generation-shift. Things change. It doesn’t make perfect copies. Your child (if you have one) is not an exact copy of yourself or your wife – it’s a mutation; a change.
These three rules – 1: that there is life and death, the surviving survive. 2: That there are different nuances in the number of offspring. 3: That there is mutation in every generation-shift – these three rules came into play directly when the first reproduction occurred. We will return to these three rules over and over again; they are like laws of nature that like God says shall work on life directly when the first life reproduces itself. These laws of nature didn’t exist before the first life reproduced itself – they were not active then. They became active directly when there was reproduction.
These are abstract laws that we will manufacture, then we have the physical reality of that in a puddle of water a strand of DNA – a cell – made copies/offspring. Then viruses came into the game and injected its own DNA into the ordinary cells, that is to say: hijacked their reproductive system to create virus-offspring. If this would´ve continued the ocean would´ve been filled with only viruses, so there has to be some next step which made it so that our type of life survived. But the viruses added a 4
th
law (one of these abstract laws)
and that is: if you can hijack someone else’s reproductive system to create your own offspring; if you can inject your DNA into somebody else´s cell so that it creates viruses – I call this “power”. We will return to this word when we for example look at dinosaurs (they became bigger because the men killed each other to get the women whom make offspring). This power-principle was one that came after the three first ones.
The first cells reproduced and we had these three rules, then viruses came and injected their DNA and used “power” to produce more viruses. Then we get an immune-system which kills viruses i.e. protects the original organism´s reproductive system from being hijacked by viruses. So the immune-system evolved to take back the reproductive principle (2: the number of offspring matters); for the fact that one should retain the reproductive capability for oneself – so that no virus can take it over. So power has a lot to do with the number of offspring – principle 4 has a lot to do with principle 2.
We have multicellular organisms with immune-systems, we have viruses around them – and it´s an arms-race between that the viruses mutate to overcome the immune-system and the immune-
system mutates to overcome the virus. Thus we have an evolutionary pressure on mutating the immune-system as much as possible as fast as possible (because the viruses mutate very quickly), and the best way to do that is to combine genes from two different organisms: a man and a woman. So sex has its beginning in viruses.
If this doesn´t make you feel comfortable contemplate this: the truth outweighs positive-thinking. But does one want to remove whatever spreads joy among people? Those who want to defeat the religious violence in the world (I think religion is the biggest unnecessary cause of hatred in the world) – one cannot defeat that without defeating all religiousness simultaneously. To want to defeat one part of religion but not the rest of it is like voting for the Republicans and Democrats simultaneously – it´s just unreal. Sadly one must remove the good to remove the evil. Meditation still remains and one can get a kind of anxietylessness from some thoughts still but in the big picture there are no reasons that support them anymore – it´s just a brain-trick that one does.
In our evolutionary story we had an immune-system which mutates, wants more mutations – we get two genders. Then men begin to war with each other (because, metaphorically speaking, women can produce offspring once a year while men can produce it every day – we have an imbalance; asymmetry). Why is it always men that start wars? It began with the first fish – we had multicellular life in our story so far, so they became a bit bigger, could swim around – we get fish: it´s easier to find food then and easier to move around. Directly when there were two genders there was one fish which evolved to use its teeth for killing other male fish. The first aggressor of course got the most offspring because there were no other men around. That´s why men go to war: they can produce offspring with so many women while a woman has no benefit from having 1000 men.
There´s a caveat to
this once we get to caveman tribes/wolf-packs where a woman secretly wants many men to provide resources to her child, but at least in the era between fish and dinosaurs the picture was simply based on asymmetric reproductive rates.
So then the male fish grow more aggressive, the child who is the biggest and has the sharpest teeth kills the other male fish, has the most offspring; and in the next generation, again: the child with the most aggression and biggest muscles gets the most offspring – that´s how we get to dinosaurs and T-rex. We had males competing/fighting with each other and that´s why T-rex is so large. That is, again, the power-principle: just like viruses took over the reproductive system from the first cells, T-rex takes away the reproductive system from his rivals by killing them. So this principle number 4 (power) lives on – it has caused/causes so much: it causes the first viruses, it causes T-rex, that fish become aggressive, that we get two genders (by viruses getting power – so we wanted to counter that power by immune-systems i.e. two genders).
These dinosaurs then, just like humans don´t seem to have (sarcasm), any concept of preserving natural resources – so they would´ve eaten up all their trees and not had any food left. But on our planet it seems to have been a meteor-strike which wiped them out, but on exoplanets i.e. overall in this evolutionary series of evolutionary pressures causing various principles (first the three first principles, then the 4
th
principle, immune-systems, two-genderedness, bigger
fish, fights between the fish, dinosaurs). The dinosaurs ate their natural resources and all large life dies - so only small rat-like/squirrel-like life-forms live on.
The trees grow back up – we get monkeys.
Groups tend to, in a fight – if it´s a group against an individual (one against many) – the group tends to win. So we monkeys form groups, fighting together for food against individualists. The individualists lost.
So we got this - or had it from the get-go (just like with the first aggressors) – instinct that makes us want to be highest in the hierarchy and thereby get all the women. Power again. But this time it´s a kind of human power – we saw power when viruses took over the reproductive systems, we saw power when dinosaurs outcompeted their rivals (the men), we see power when a bully goes to the top of the hierarchy, pushes down the other men – and the women want the bully´s resources (he has the most stuff) so they´re attracted to him, so he gets the most offspring – out of his offspring the one that is best at getting power the one that gets most offspring.
The reason for why the brain grew so fast during the past 100 000 years was because we used the brain to plan for how to climb upward in the hierarchy. The reproductive benefits coming from being high-status in the hierarchy were so great comparing to being low-status that this put great selection-pressure on bigger brains.
Now we basically have caveman living in hierarchical societies, we have kings, aristocrats and slaves – and that is how the world was 5000 years ago. The kings build monumental architecture (pyramids and such). Then someone focused on a random word – so someone focused on what we talked about in part 1: Reality (that of which all is part) and realized one cannot see it (because we should be part of it, or the other two proofs for not being able to see all there is to Reality) and thus they invented the word God: it is one, one cannot see it – we have the dawn of monotheism.
Someone random-focused on the word “soul/self” too and realized one gets less anxiety by making a distinction between the body
one sees in ones imaginations
21.12
Author
yonis
Posted on
30/11/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Latest version of my book
Del 2: Evolutionsteorin
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/del2-interse-evolution.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
14/11/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Del 2: Evolutionsteorin
Posts navigation
Page
1
Page
2
Next page
Search for:
Search
Recent Posts
Talet 3
Sammanfattning universell kurs interse 11-01-2017
From Certain Truth to Dinosaurs (with Maan and Marwan)
War and Boredom
2 Nobel Prizes
Recent Comments
Archives
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
January 2016
Categories
Dagbok
Old
The book + diagrams
Trashcan
Trey
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.org
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Proudly powered by WordPress

Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen – Everyone needs to know the basics
Skip to content
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Everyone needs to know the basics
Talet 3
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/talet-3.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
17/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Talet 3
Sammanfattning universell kurs interse 11-01-2017
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/sammanfattning-universell-kurs-interse-11-01-2017.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
11/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Sammanfattning universell kurs interse 11-01-2017
From Certain Truth to Dinosaurs (with Maan and Marwan)
Author
yonis
Posted on
05/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on From Certain Truth to Dinosaurs (with Maan and Marwan)
War and Boredom
War-and-Boredom
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen, Sweden
1
War and Boredom
The title of this book refers to that it is hard to get through this book. The reason why this new science (that I present in this book) hasn’t been discovered until I did is because part 1 of this book gives a sense of meaninglessness toward the Universe and part 2 deals with evolution in a depressing way because the main trend is “power”.
Writing it gave me anxiety and reading it gives many people anxiety.
But the question is: does everyone agree on it? If they do, that changes the Israel-Palestine-conflict where the parties of God are vetoing
regarding the borders of
the
“holy land”; it changes religious extremism and the wars fought over it. Religion is the biggest cause for hatred
in the world, as Hitchens said. My book
is
a minimalist theory
that
encompasses all one needs to understand
Everything: existence (why there is size itself) and
evolution – even thoughts about the future of humanity/evolution.
Even though there comes a sense of meaninglessness from knowing the existential theory and a sense of depression from knowing evolution, there is
a sense of
honor in having the right world-view.
Most importantly, the religious wars - ISIS/Israel/etc. - can be demolished by a world-view which everyone agrees on. War only continues because it is boring to learn and teach the course I present in this book. Hence the book´s name: War and Boredom, or: how boredom (toward science) keeps the wars continuing.
Not only can this book end wars, but it can unify people so that they feel more friendliness toward each other – science is a language and speaking the same language makes it easier to make friends. Having the same associations between concepts (a scientific world-view) gives people a lot to agree on, they´ll “speak the same language”.
If anyhow you get too bored to study further, there are three parts to this book (1: the existential theory, 2: evolution, 3: the dawn of religion), and they’re written with different styles. You may jump to either part directly.
Lecture 1
Descartes
One of the aims of this course is to get EVERYONE to agree so that they have the same associations between scientific concepts.
There is no other proper way to accomplish this goal than by starting with certain truth, which was found by Descartes in the 1600s. He lived in a time where they believed in demons, Gods etc. so he postulated a thought experiment where he assumed an almighty demon was fooling him in everything he could be fooled in: what would remain as certain truth – what could he not be fooled in?
If he was being fooled, where would still be a “he” (or self) there to be fooled, meaning that the self certainly exists. A self is necessary for a self to be fooled.
Descartes had thus concluded his own existence.
Being fooled is thinking – thus thought exists. “There is thought” Descartes concluded as certain truth. The word “fooling” represents a thought-process.
Descartes found the starting-position for any inquiry about truth: we can know certainly that thinker and thought exists.
Distinction exists (a logical conclusion from the above)
Looking at what we´ve found as certain truth so far “from above” (meta), we can take the next logical step – adding a third factoid to our 2-statement (A and B above) starting position: that there is distinction (
between
thinker and thought). The fact that thinker and thought are two separate entities concluded to be certain truth
s
through two
different
logical pathway
s
lets us conclude that “distinction exists”
. There are what Chinese philosophy calls “the ten thousand things” (referring to the world) – there are at least two (three if we include “distinction” as th
e third thing) certain entities, and empirically we know there are “ten thousand things” (not taking the number 10 000 literally but just referring to multiplicity).
First universal diagram
We can draw the thinker and thought and distinction between them as two dots with a line between them on a piece of paper (fig. 1).
Now we have something all religions agree on
– we´ve drawn up ideas and associations between them. Everyone ought to have the same associations (explanatory thoughts) between the concepts we´ve looked at so far.
We have, if you will – in figure 1 – a universal diagram.
Reality
We have the capability to conglomerate many separate entities under the rubric of a single category. If we use this capability to collect the “ten thousand things” (distinct entities) we´ve found so far into a single thing, we ought to give that thing a word/name. Its definition can be “that of which all is
part” and “the opposite of separation/distinction”. I will use the word Reality to refer to this all-encompassing thing.
In lecture 2 I will present three proofs for that “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, but for now we can draw (adding to figure 1) a dot with a cross over it – the cross to symbolize that the dot itself is a false representation of Reality because we (the observer/self/thinker) should be part of that dot. See fig 2.
Thinking about what we´ve got so far
Thinking about what we´ve got so far (fig. 2) it’s a bundle of associations which make universal inter-religious (all religions agree on it) knowledge with both words and pictures.
In the next lecture I present why the line in fig 2 (see fig 3) represents the opposition/antagonism/disagreement/contraposition/divergence/variance between the two sides of the paper; between “thinker and thought” on one side of the paper and “Reality (that of which all is part; the opposite of separation)” on the other side of the paper.
Worth noting now is that the left side of the paper represents separation/distinction whilst the right side of the paper represents the opposite of separation/distinction – both are legitimate ideas: thinker and thought – and distinction – is certain truth based on Descartes and we all know which idea we refer to when talking about the all-encompassing [that of which all is part] Reality.
In the next lecture we will talk about why the line in fig. 3 makes it so that we can´t see Reality – I will present three proofs like in a crime case, and we will talk about what we can see if we can´t see Reality.
Making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far
1
See fig. 1 again: it´s our starting-point and the thinking that occurs in it happens in Descartes “realm of mind”; it is the mind´s realm (the left side of the paper) in which the thinking happens, and one thing we talk about is Reality on the right side of the paper in fig 3. Since the line in fig. 3 represents both the legitimacy of the ideas on both sides of the paper, and simultaneously the opposition between separation/distinction (on the left side of the paper) and [the opposite of separation/distinction] on the right side of the paper. That opposition is important and I will show its significance in lecture 2.
2
Starting from Descartes realm (of if you will: assuming that all we know is what we know for certain), we have the capability to state that there is a single Reality of which all is part – so even though we see separation we must grant that that separation (all entities) fits into a category we call Reality. There is a unifying whole even though the human mind (Descartes realm) is limited in its ways when it tries to contemplate Reality.
Not only is there the map-territory distinction (which will be presented as one out of three proofs in lecture 2), but there is also a more fundamental opposition between distinction and its opposite (there is a more fundamental opposition between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3). Not only are we stuck in the map-territory-distinction-realm but we also can conclude that no representation (regardless of the mind) is equal to Reality (on a more fundamental level than the map-territory-problem).
Representation is done in the brain using neurons and in a computer using electrons, but there is no reason why the most distant atom or quark couldn´t be proposed to be a symbol for [that of which all is part] – and even in that brainless scenario we will see in lecture 2 that “that of which all is part cannot be represented”. The map-territory-distinction is just proof/evidence number two in lecture 2 (for that we cannot see Reality and thus, since we do see/represent something, there must be more to Reality than can be represented i.e. the size-time-diagram (presented in lecture
2) is infinite along both axes.
Proof 3 in lecture 2 removes the brain from the equation and still proves that there is more to Reality than can be seen/represented/symbolized (using any means/any method – even without a brain), and since some representation is obviously (since we know that there are minds) possible, there must be more than can be represented/contemplated i.e. the size-axis is infinite and the time-axis is infinite in that two-axis diagram.
3
Both sides of the paper in fig. 3 are legitimate ideas. But still they are opposites (separation on one side and the opposite of separation on the other side). How can two derived-from-logic sides of the paper be opposites but still both be legitimate?
Usually opposition – like between Democrats and
Republicans – means that one is right and the other is wrong; they can´t both simultaneously be right: you can´t meaningfully vote for both parties at the same time.
The case is different between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3: both sides are right and they are opposites.
There is a single Reality and there is multiplicity in distinction.
What does this mean? That there is more to the size-time-diagram than anything could represent – any representation fails (you can think of some examples/suggestions for how to represent [that of which all is part]/[the opposite of separation]) – and thus the axes on the size-time-diagram are infinite. This is a hither to unpresented fact in science – it is new science: some of the best scientists ignorantly believe that the size-range is limited/finite.
4
We have quite a few associations and symbols in fig. 3 which must be agreed upon, and here I´m using the word “must” in the sense that “by the rules of logic X must be true”. Other civilizations throughout the infinitely many galaxies there are use the exact same ideas (but in a different language) and have the same associations between them (that there are infinitely many galaxies is derived from that the size-axis in the size-time-diagram is infinite). There is distinction as the third truth to be added to Descartes two fundamental truths (thinker and thought exist), and all that is opposed to (on the other side of the paper in fig. 3) to the all-encompassing Reality which is defined using at least two definitions: that of which all is part and the opposite of separation.
I´m tri-lingual but I write the same ideas and associate them in the same ways no matter which language I write in – its universal science beginning from certain truth. On other planets that have civilizations my writings in this book ought to match up quite near to the writings creating the same lecture series based on universal science that I´m creating
– “alien”/exo-planet
lecture series proceed, beginning from certain fact, through logical steps as I do.
5
[Thinker and thought] (certain truth) and thus distinction/separation are associated through negation/opposition to the right side of the paper in figure 3: Reality. The left side is not the right side just like separation is not its opposites. Both being legitimate ideas, though, connects them in the way that thinker and thought (and all other distinct entities) are in the category Reality.
Even though Reality and distinction are opposites, distinction dwells in (as a sub-entity within the category) Reality.
The associations between the left and right sides of the paper in figure 3 are both united through the notion “opposition” and through the notion that distinction is inherent in Reality (Reality being the opposite of distinction
because we have all-encompassing and its opposite: composite parts).
6
It is certainly true that all is part of a single Reality; but it is equally true that in every observation there is an observer and hence distinction (between thinker and thought). We see separate entities is as true as that the self that we are is not in front of us – but everything we see (thought/object) is in front of us.
That is evidence 1 in lecture 2 (not a proof, but a mere suggestion/evidence that [that of which all is part cannot be observed] and thus there is more to Reality than our concept of [infinitely much].
All we know about Reality has two properties: a size and a time. Size and time are two axes on a diagram, and thus all we know fits into the size-time-diagram (every object or location in space
has a size and time).
There is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram because all suggested representors for Reality fail
(for three reasons taken up in lecture 2).
7
All
bundles of associations in this chapter “making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far”
are written in order to create some universal brain structures (universal because science is the same everywhere (on all exo-planets), and their brains make the same associations too eventually). It´s not some random bundle of associations nor did I randomly present random ideas.
I assume the brain structure created by understanding this book is a replica of something derived from science; a replica of brain structures on the infinitely many other civilization-bearing planets. It´s a universal “ideology”, if you will.
Everyone has a possibility of sharing it in agreement – and future lectures will add a whole lot of complexity to it; agreement tends to build friendship so study is a way of bringing more peace to the world.
Once the full world-view is presented throughout this book, it´s a way of pacifying the world.
8
We have two brain-halves: one linguistic and one visual. So far we´ve both drawn pictorial representations and connected words – both brain-halves have been working. The connections across corpus collosum (which sits between the brain-halves and connects them) that connect a linguistic narrative/explanation to the pictorial representations are one day found in all humans thanks to science. Our brains are becoming more as science has a propensity to make them be.
This course itself, since it begins with certain truths and builds upon it logically, is a universal course (to the best of my ability).
The brain cells that constitute the negation (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 3) or opposition are not the same kind of cells (they are inhibitory neurons) that connect thinker with though as both being certain truths (but the thinker is not the thought and thus has inhibitory cells making that brain-structure work too
(what you are is not in front of you;
what you are is not visible).
Since both Reality and [what you are]/self/observer/thinker are invisible the brain might erroneously and spontaneously try to associate them, so a brain-structure is needed to inhibit that association (and replace it with a more complex explanation). That spontaneous but erroneous association is something all thinking animals throughout the universe evolved to do, and the inhibition of it through culture/civilizing/science is universally available within complex enough civilizations throughout the universe.
As you can see the brain structures responsible for doing this thing are quite complex, but also universal and thus accessible to all humans, and predictably will someday be in all humans (fostering agreement, thus friendship, thus peace).
Lecture 2
Perceive, apprehend, notice are synonyms for our representing ability, but I will use the word “see” or “observe” to refer to all of these. The goal of this lecture is to prove the statement “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, Reality being defined as “that of which all is part”. In other words: we cannot see Reality, and thus there is more to Reality than even can be contemplated (i.e. infinitely much).
I will build this lecture like a criminal court case: I will present three proofs for that we cannot see Reality i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated i.e. (since we can contemplate anything (right or wrong)) Reality is infinite.
Since anything/everything we know about Reality has some size and time, it fits into a size-time-diagram. See fig. 4.
In fig. 4 size is represented along the vertical axis and time along the horizontal axis. The objects humans see in everyday life (from the horizon to a single cell as one “pixel” in our visual field) are marked in “the human range”.
See fig 5.
In fig. 5 I´ve drawn the same diagram as in fig. 4 but this time with infinity-symbols in each corner of the squareical size-time-diagram. Two infinite axes become a square.
Proof number 3 in our “court case” for proving that the size-time-diagram (Reality) is infinite has us imagine the unobservable separatenessless Reality and ask whether there is a maximum or minimum size to/in it (a maximum/minimum being separateness while we are talking about the opposite of separation). This is again to confirm that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes.
The line we drew in fig. 4 was for separating the two sides of the paper; opposing “thinker and thought” (distinction) with its opposite: one all-encompassing non-distinction Reality. That opposition-line is what this lecture is about since it proves that the two sides of the paper are separate/opposing realms and we are stuck in one realm as long as we are observers (because observation is separation/distinction (thinker and thought)).
Proving that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes is new science because it poses the question: what happened before the Big Bang (14 billion years ago), and it presents one pillar of our existential theory: that each size is the reason for each next and previous size, and the size axis is infinite, meaning the “beginning” of the relationship between sizes keeps retreating into infinity the more we contemplate the range of the size axis.
When I presented fig. 4 for the first time I drew a cross over the dot symbolizing Reality for the plain reason that we (as observers) should be part of that dot, and by the very nature of us being separate (and the dot representing the opposite of separation) we should draw a cross over it symbolizing that we cannot see it.
The main proof though is that even if all observers were dead there´d still be, inherent and fundamental in nature, the opposition between distinction and distinction´s opposite (the two sides of the paper in fig. 4). The line is an opposition-line and it is more fundamental than being dependent on humans/observers – it refers to all representation whether it’s using/including humans or not. I am, in other words, not talking about the map-territory distinction (which symbolizes that humans have mental maps and not the real world per se; like Kant said: we have “the thing” and not “the thing itself”). Proof 2 – the opposition-line between the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 – is not subjective: it is true that we live with the map-territory-distinction but even if I died there´d still be separate things (chairs separate from cups), that kind of separation is not dependent on me/observers. Simultaneously the flipside of the coin (the other side of the paper in fig. 4) is true too: all is one single Reality (the opposite of separation). Proof 2, in other words, should not be interpreted as signifying the map-territory distinction (human subjectivity) but instead a fundamental opposition in the universe.
If we do not see Reality, then what do we see? Everything we see fits into the size-time-diagram, and since the opposition-line in fig. 4 shows that there is a fundamental rule that states, in 3 different proofs, that Reality is infinite / there is more than can even be contemplated / there is more than even non-subjective representation can represent.
Proof number 1 is really weaker than a “proof” – it´s more like evidence. It wouldn´t hold up in a court but it is a way of stating what the other proofs too point towards. Proof 1 is what we saw when presenting figure 4: any dot representing Reality is an incorrect representation because the observer should be part of the object – the thinker should be part of the thought. It denies Cartesian separation and thus is untrue, meaning that anything we draw on the right side of the paper in fig. 4 is incorrect.
We can contemplate anything: we can speculate about what´s smaller than quantum physics, or even what´s smaller than that, etc. into infinity. We are probably wrong, but any contemplation/representation counts as a contemplation – and since we know that, whether right or wrong as our contemplations may be, there is more to Reality than can be contemplated, it follows
that there must be infinitely much to Reality. Since all we know about Reality fits into a size-time-diagram, the minimalist approach is to state that it´s the size-time-diagram that is infinite.
This warrants two new words: the knowable/known size-range and the infinite size-range. The knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range. Since Einstein unified space (size) and time, one cannot be infinite without the other one being the same. Science today doesn´t know whether there was a “before” to the Big Bang or not (whether time was created at the Big Bang), but now we know that the Big Bang is just an event on an infinite time axis. In a future lecture we will talk about how/why the Big Bang recreates (happens over and over).
We talked about universal diagrams (and universal brain-structures) in lecture 1. The size-time-diagram is one major universal diagram. A lot of detail can be added to it because all fields of science fit into it. The infinity-symbols on each axis of the squareical diagram are drawn, based on science, on exo-planets with advanced enough civilizations.
This lecture is about proving that [that of which all is part] (the opposite of separation) i.e. Reality cannot be observed/represented, and that this fact is true irrespective of whether we are observers or dead, and applying this to the size-time-diagram (which gets its infinity-symbols into the squareical diagram).
Proof number 2 (the main proof) is the oppositional approach between Reality and distinction, and it is not subjective because Reality and Reality´s opposite exist even if we were dead. Proof number 3 is about imagining (even though no imagination is it) Reality as a big gray (because energymass is white and spacetime is black) solid, in which we know no observer should be (because observation is separation) – does it have separation i.e. a biggest and a smallest size? No, because such distinctions are not in the opposite of distinction (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 4).
I´ve mentioned universal associations in the brain / exo-planet science, so talking about the size-time-diagram we can add more universal notions to it: why did I draw upwards on the size axis as larger and downward as smaller? Why is the time-axis horizontally drawn instead of vertically? The diagram works even if we would define the vertical axis as time and the horizontal axis as size – so why do we draw size vertically and time horizontally? Is it universal i.e. on other planets or just a human convention like writing from left to right in English-speaking countries and right to left in Arabic-speaking countries?
Evolution has it so that during the history of science telescopes look upward and microscopes look downward. This would be the case on other planets too: they turn their heads upward to see the large and downward (onto a table) to see the small; the opposite can´t be true on any planet. Thus we get the size axis´ standard (of upward being larger) from evolution / the history of science. I use the word “standard” because it comes from evolution rather than being more fundamentally hard-wired into the universe such as the fact that the size-time-diagram is a square with infinity symbols. That the size-time-diagram is a square is not a standard – it is something stronger than that. The fact that we represent time on the vertical axis (and upward as larger) comes from a weaker source: tradition (even though that same tradition is true on all planets; evolution, in this regard, happens the same on all planets that end up with civilizations).
We thus have added standards or weak conventions (derived from history) in addition to having strong diagrams like the size-time-diagram being a square. The distinction between the two is made based on science and is thus made on exo-planets.
Scientists are looking for exo-planets that bear civilizations. If the size-range is infinite – as we´ve proven that it is – then each particular size (like the human range in fig. 5) is infinite too; if the largest is infinitely large then there is, considering the size of a human, an infinite distance in any direction that that human could find itself in. This makes civilizations on other planets a must, not an assumption. The known/knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range, and within the known size-range there is a range in which evolution occurs (between the smallest cells and the biggest organisms), and since we´ve proven that there are infinitely many objects within/of that size-range, then there must be infinitely many locations in which evolution occurs.
In the next lecture we will bind together the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 (distinction and distinction´s opposite; “thinker and thought” opposing Reality) with E=mc
2
(energymasspacetime) and with the infinity of the size-time axes, into a single existential theory which is a rival to “God created earth in 6 days…” The existential theory is a minimalist account for why there is a sizescale in the first place, and why there is something (energymass) rather than nothing (spacetime). It reminds me of this passage: “HITCHENS: In other words, as the great physicist Laplace said when he demonstrated his working model (his orrery, as it’s called) of the solar system to the emperor and Napoleon said, “Well I see there’s no God in this system,” and Laplace said, “Well, Your Majesty, it works without that assumption.””
In this chapter I´ve presented three proofs for that the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in it i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated; we do represent something but however we choose to represent (even representations that can be proposed as thought-experiments if we were dead) we do not represent Reality i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality. Are there any counter-arguments saying that the size-time-diagram is finite? I built this lecture like a court case and I´d like to hear the opposing side. There are no arguments that oppose what I´ve proven so far.
Lecture 3
E=mc
2
E=mc
2
as an equation is only used in relativistic scenarios such as very high speed or very high energy, but since speed is a continuum the equation is true at slower speeds. There is a difference between the equation being applicable (being needed while solving equations) and it being true; it is always true everywhere but it is not needed for equations except in special scenarios.
An example of the equation being true everywhere and always is this: nuclear power-plants turn mass (kilograms) into energy (joule), so that if you input 1 kg of uranium-mass you get out 99.9999 kg of waste products – some of the mass turned into energy which lights our light-bulbs. The atoms that lost some weight (that weight was converted into energy) are atoms just like other kinds of atoms, for example in autumn leaves. If you´d drop leaves into the core of the sun, the sun´s nuclear furnace
would turn mass in the leaves into energy (light). Hence all objects are subject to the E=mc
2
-rule, which states that energy (E) equals mass (m). This warrants the word energymass because they are no longer two distinct things – they are but different manifestations of the same thing. In the brain energymass should be a single idea whilst the concepts “energy and mass” refers to two different forms of a single idea.
Verbs and adjectives tend to refer to energy (shining, running, etc.) while nouns refer to mass (body, tree, etc.) E=mc
2
states that the two (verbs/adjectives and nouns) are together in a single equation. Although only applicable in relativistic scenarios (the role of relativism becomes close to zero in everyday human events, except that our light-bulbs shine because mass turns into energy and the sun can makes leaves into light), E=mc
2
is in a “philosophical” sense true everywhere and always just like Pythagoras’s theorem about triangles remains “philosophically true” even where there are no physical triangles. You wouldn´t say 1=1 is not true in empty space just because there are no objects there to count as “1”.
In addition to energymass being a single concept (and not two distinct ones), spacetime gets added into the mix by the c
2
-part of the equation. c is the speed of light (km/h) and thus a distance (space) over time – spacetime! Energymass (E=m) and spacetime (c
2
) should in the brain be represented by a single idea which we can call energymasspacetime. This harkens back to the previous lectures about Reality, which is a synonym for energymasspacetime. Einstein invented the equation E=mc
2
and thus unified in it energymass with spacetime – and synonyms for energymass are “existence” or “1” while synonyms for spacetime are “non-existence”, “emptiness”, “nothing” and “zero”. There is no more to be considered regarding Reality than energymasspacetime; energymasspacetime involves everything (energymass) and nothing (spacetime) so there is nothing more to be considered/added to Reality – Reality is energymasspacetime; everything is included into Reality once we have defined Reality as energymasspacetime.
The Existential Theory
Each culture seems to have a creation myth (such as genesis) – the creation of the cosmos/world/Reality is something humans have invented hypotheses for during millennia. The stories answer the question “why are we here?”
The true answer is unintuitive. First of all: why is there any particular size? What justifies, say, the size of a molecule? The answer is: the smaller and the larger (the rest of the size-range). Atoms justify a molecule and a molecule exhibits a place for atoms to live in: justifies atoms. Humans need an earth to dwell on (the earth is larger) and humans are made of cells (cells are smaller). Each size bears a relationship upon each other size – the smaller justify the larger and the larger justify the smaller. Since the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all four corners of the square (because of the proof where we had two sides of a paper), the size-range is infinite i.e. the pattern of justification between/amongst sizes continues into the infinitely large and infinitely small. What the ancients called “the first cause” keeps retreating into infinity size-wise the more we contemplate it. The size-range is like a fractal: you can keep zooming in or out infinitely much, and the question “why is there this particular object that I see” has its answer in the relationship between all the sizes: justification. Infinite justification is the reason why there is a size-range at all. But there is more that is needed for a full-fledged existential theory: two more factors play their roles.
Spacetime is emptier than we can imagine/represent it. We (and all representeurs) are energymass and thus are the opposite of spacetime. We could let a piece of empty space represent spacetime, but as soon as we use energymass (such as our brains) to do so, we´ve lost the truly empty nature of spacetime: it is unimaginably empty. Any bundle of neurons, no matter how we wire it, is still the opposite of what they want to represent when they want to present us with spacetime. It is therefore useful to have two concepts for spacetime: (1) our simplest intuition of spacetime and (2) additional defining language explaining that spacetime is emptier than (1). This is how exoplanet civilizations would wire their brains regarding the concept “spacetime” too, just because it’s the most accurate science they can manage.
Just like energy and mass are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon, energymass and spacetime are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon. What does it mean for spacetime to be bundled together with (intertwined with) energymass? Everything exists as/in/because of nothing; 1 exists in 0; energymass and spacetime are together in the E=mc
2
-equation. Where could energymass/existence exist? In nothingness. Just like sizes justify one another, spacetime justifies energymass.
The last question that remains, after we have justification between sizes in an infinite size-range, and that all points in the size-time-diagram are made of energymasspacetime (and energymass is justified by it being in spacetime), is the objective fact that there both is a single Reality (the right side of the paper) and there´s its opposite: distinction (between, say, thinker and thought).
The existential theory builds on three “pillars”/fundamental ideas:
An infinite sizescale,
Energymasspacetime as in the equation E=mc
2
Distinction between distinction itself and distinction´s opposite (see fig. 1, 2, 3):
Between distinction (the left side of the paper, our 2 certain truths: I exist and there is thought) and Reality (the opposite of distinction; one Reality (not plural)) there is a line that demarcates distinction/opposition.
Putting it all into one phrase we might say: “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime with opposition between distinction and Oneness”. At its core it´s three ideas (infinite size-time-diagram, energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
), separation and intertwinedness (the two sides of the paper)). On exoplanets they would state their reason for their own existence using these three ideas too, because taken together they explain all that needs to be explained: first thing that comes to mind is that in the stated existential theory there must be a reproducing shape (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape; a DNA-strand) somewhere. If the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all three corners, then evolution ought to occur somewhere (and be made of energymass in spacetime, while being separate/distinct in a single intertwined Reality).
Most creation-myths have a quite simple (one-pillared) and mundane story: for example genesis just states that God created Reality (that of which all is part) in 6 days and rested on the 7
th
. The scientific rival to all such creation stories is a three-pillared theory – we can´t make it any simpler (we can´t make it one-pillared) and the same would be the case on exoplanets: they too can only break it down to three interconnected ideas/pillars/fundaments, so in thinking this way we share a common intellectual history with exoplanet civilizations advanced enough to figure out this existential theory.
On a test on this subject a question might be: “what are the three pillars of the existential theory?” – the question can´t be “what is the most important pillar in the existential theory?” All pillars are
equally important but constitute as distinct ideas as E=mc
2
is from infinite size, or the separation-intertwinedness-opposition (fig. 3).
This three-pillared creation story – the sum of these three chapters – is built upon logic: it includes certain truths like “I think and I exist” (distinction/separation), its opposite (Reality for which we have three proofs for that it can´t be observed/seen/contemplated i.e. the size-time-diagram is infinite), E=mc
2
which unifies nothing/spacetime with existence/energymass, and the relationship between any two sizes (justification along the infinite size-range). Every one of these ideas relates very closely to Descartes´ certain truth, meaning we can be sure of the ideas themselves – and they together build up a minimalist existential theory which needs no further logic to explain everything there is.
Having an infinite size-range has a predictive quality to it too – it makes a prediction: there ought to be evolution (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar mass) somewhere in the diversity we see throughout even the known size-range.
Though as non-intuitive as the 3-pillar existential theory may be to our evolved brains who want a single conclusion, exoplanet civilizations have the same limits and biases as us: they too are stuck with three pillars in a single theory to make the theory explainable. Science is creating universal (exoplanet) neural pathways in our brains. We should embrace the fact that by being non-intuitive but true, this science wires our brain based on science and thus universally. It is the way (the wiring) that all planets are headed to if they´re into science. It´s a universal world-view. We´re thinking like aliens.
In current scientific debates the religious will argue that faith (in a dogma) is needed to (what they call) “understand” the existence of the universe. If confronted with my theory (these lectures) they´d have to agree that logic makes their God unnecessary as a pillar of creation. In the best case scenario God is simply a synonym for Reality (because Reality is “that of which all is part” and thus God ought to be part of it too, and all we know about Reality is that it is energymass in spacetime and separation in intertwinedness).
Having an explanation – the negative side of it is it being three-pillared and unintuitive, the positive side of it being that it accounts for all of Reality and predicts evolution – further justifies the saying “a God of the gaps” (meaning the more we understand the less we need God). Now all that remains to be understood – again in an unintuitive but identical to exoplanets -way – is how, on an infinite time-line, the Big Bang (denseness) recreates and fades away into sparseness (black holes removing energymass and dark energy creating more space until no galaxies are anymore visible).
Lecture 4
The beginning of the Big Bang
I have a hard time imagining how the universe can reach complete emptiness, but it wouldn´t be the first time the universe´s nature surpasses human intuition. In the history of science stars were observed to not move relative to one another on the night sky, and this was argued to prove that the
size of the universe was much smaller than the now known size – it was argued that the universe would be “unreasonably big” if the stars didn´t seem to move relative to one another as the earth moved because they were so far away.
If only enough time is needed for the universe to become empty, then we get the starting scenario which is most reasonable: we start with emptiness (spacetime). Again, spacetime is emptier than our concept for it because we (and our concepts) are made of energymass.
If you move your hand one meter (from position 1 to position 2), the laws of nature that make your hand make sense were already in place in the space of position 2 before you moved your hand there. It´s not like the universe/spacetime was absurd in location 2 and only started to make sense regarding hands when you moved your hand there. We do not impact the laws of nature in such ways; instead the laws of nature are simultaneously and equally true at all locations and all times. In other words: Pythagoras’s theorem is true even in locations where there are no objects whatsoever, but the theorem is only applicable (to be applied) to triangles. In empty space there are no objects and thus no triangles, but Pythagoras´s theorem is true there anyhow – it does not suddenly become true (switch from being untrue to true) when a triangle is imagined or physically moved there. This applies to E=mc
2
too, which is just as much of a law of nature as Pythagoras´s theorem. E=mc
2
is true everywhere and always, though humans only apply (use) the equation in certain scenarios. Where triangles can be (in spacetime) there is also E=mc
2
. Laws of nature are fundamental and inherent in spacetime and do not come about depending on events (though our application/use of any particular equation is dependent on which event we´re analyzing).
There is distinction between the practical use of equations (to solve problems or understand a phenomenon) and the core nature of spacetime having laws of nature in it. Spacetime is a no-nonsense spacetime – we live in a rational (laws of nature-abiding) universe.
One law being E=mc
2
and another one being “if it is said it must exist” (meaning energymass can´t be mentioned in the laws of nature of spacetime without energymass existing), we get spacetime to summon energymass if the starting-point was complete emptiness. “If energymass is mentioned it must be summoned” (it is mentioned in E=mc
2
) is true because it would be a nonsense universe if it “talks” about energymass without there being any – just infinite space for eternity with laws of nature regarding energymass, but never any energymass appearing/being present. It would be a nonsense universe if energymass it mentioned but never exists. It would be akin to the universe telling lies (having all these rules like E=mc
2
but never applying them to anything), or the universe babbling gibberish (having inapplicable laws of nature).
Thus, E=mc
2
being a core property of spacetime itself and the “no gibberish”-rule applying, energymass must logically be summoned – but how and where? Extremely dense i.e. everywhere, in the smallest spaces, simultaneously. Why? Our starting-point is spacetime, which needs no prior justification because it is the opposite of existence: it doesn´t exist – it is emptier than our neurons make it out to be. In it Einstein´s theory of relativity is true, meaning that there is no center point (or in other words: all points are the center) so there is no center to the Big Bang. Another way of seeing it is that as soon as there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification), E=mc
2
became true in all locations (in the smallest spaces) simultaneously – no point in space was before another in having E=mc
2
be true in it. Spacetime having E=mc
2
as a core property has E=mc
2
be true everywhere
simultaneously; once we have the launching-condition of empty spacetime, through E=mc
2
, energymass is summoned everywhere simultaneously.
This “everywhere” is all things within an event horizon, meaning that things moving away faster than the speed of light (due to dark energy/accelerating cosmic expansion) are not within our event horizon: they are not part of what can be reasonably called “our 3-dimensional space” (from our location). Things are not part of our universe once their speed hits faster than the speed of light – and many locations, within the boundaries of their respective event horizons, will one day have all energymass moving away from them at speeds faster than the speed of light (this is just the observed fact of accelerating cosmic expansion). Such a finite space with no energymass within its event horizon (all energymass moving away faster than the speed of light) would constitute “completely empty space” i.e. our starting-point for the Big Bang (energymass being summoned due to E=mc
2
).
Consider an infinite size-range - it is made of energymasspacetime: if we draw it as the Y-axis on a diagram, there can´t be a region/length in it (such as the knowable size-range) which is completely empty forever. See fig. 6.
Because of the rules E=mc
2
and “if it is mentioned it must be summoned”/”no-nonsense universe” are true throughout the infinite size-range, there can´t be a region with just spacetime (with its laws of nature) because the laws of spacetime mention energymass; spacetime is inherently tied to and intertwined with energymass – existence and non-existence go together (at all sizes). There would be no logical breaking-point (a particular size) where energymasspacetime transitions into being just spacetime for a range of sizes and then transitions back into energymasspacetime; there is no logical breaking-point where the implications of E=mc
2
(the implication being: energymass and spacetime are in the same equation) stop to be true. The transition seen in fig. 6 is impossible (there is no “empty region”). Having an empty region would be akin to zooming into the decimals of pi and seeing no numbers for a specific array of decimals: 3.14159ÄÄÄÄ265359... The Ä´s can´t be there: it´s a continuous sequence of decimal numbers. There is no break/”empty region” in the continuous decimals of pi just as there is no region of the size-range that can be empty of energymass.
In this chapter I´ve written something akin to “
first
there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification unless you consider that the size-axis of the size-time-diagram is infinite),
then
there was E=mc
2
,
then
there was energymass summoned into the smallest spaces available (available = considered to be within an event horizon and empty)”. This harkens back to previous lectures´ talk about “alien logic” (how exoplanets think). To have it make sense to our brains we use the time-distinctions “first, then and then” but the real distinction is not in time but in steps in a sequence of logic. In other words all the mentioned steps happened simultaneously to start the Big Bang: E=mc
2
was true as soon as there was spacetime, and as soon as there was that, energymass appeared as not to make the universe absurd (by it talking gibberish or it having an empty region like in fig. 6).
The end of the Big Bang
Telescopes observe that “space is being born” i.e. that the distances between clumps of energymass (galaxies) are getting larger, and at an accelerating pace too. Not only does the Hubble law state that an object a
million light
-
years
away would be receding from us at 21 km/sec and at double the distance twice the speed, but the law states that that speed (for example 21 km/sec a million light years away) is increasing. This is called accelerating cosmic expansion. It means that from our galaxy, when/if we look into the sky trillions of years in the future, we´d see no trace of any other galaxy let alone the cosmic microwave background (because their speeds have passed the speed of light and thus went beyond the event horizon). Once that object a million light years away from us which today is racing away at 21 km/sec reaches 299792 km/sec (the speed of light), it will pass from being within our event horizon to being outside our sphere of events.
This empties our universe or as Hitchens put it: “nothingness is coming”. Once that nothingness comes we have our starting point where we run through the logic of E=mc
2
–> “if it is mentioned it must exist/be summoned” (in order for the universe not to talk gibberish or the infinite size-range not to have a break in it) –> energymass begins as dense (because of relativity and because E=mc
2
is true everywhere simultaneously/equally).
We observe that nothingness (within event horizons) is coming, and beginning from nothingness there is unintuitive logic that has a predictive quality to it: the Big Bang should start dense. This theory works well with lecture 2´s proofs for that “there is more to Reality than can be represented” (the size-time-diagram is infinite) because size is essentially space, and space and time are intertwined into a single spacetime – hence: if size/space is infinite then time must be infinite too. In other words we have reoccurring Big Bangs interspersed along the time-axis of our size-time-diagram. As soon as a region bound by an event horizon becomes empty we have the universe´s no-nonsense-laws kicking in and E=mc
2
summons energymass (in the smallest sizes that are empty equally/simultaneously).
The sequence of consecutive Big Bangs´ beginnings (emptiness leading to energymass being summoned) and ends (accelerating cosmic expansion speeding things past a point´s event horizon and emptiness being summoned) are as infinite as the time-axis proved to be based on lecture 2´s proofs. Proving (in lecture 2) that spacetime is infinite fits perfectly with the reoccurring Big Bangs (when somethingness becomes emptiness and then emptiness summons somethingness).
There will in other words, between the beginning of a Big Bang and the end of that same Big Bang, be life within the conscious/human size-range (the different locations of that size already being infinitely many, see fig. 4).
Each size along the size-axis is defined as “3-dimensional infinite space” meaning there is infinitely much life with access to universal science (i.e. some version of this lecture-series), and within our region (bound by an event horizon) there is life between the beginning and end of Big Bangs. In addition I have hard to believe that a reproducing shape (and thus evolution) only occurs in only
one
size-range (the, for humans, knowable size-range) in an infinite size-range: there ought to be many sub-size-ranges as part of the infinite size-range where evolution occurs and can reach scientific knowledge. All life mentioned above, if they reach scientific understanding, would concur on the existential theory presented in these lectures (especially lecture 3 – the three pillars/foundations/ideas which together become a minimalist theory for why there is the infinite size-range of energymasspacetime in the first place).
This is not only exoplanet science – it is science between Big Bangs and it is science in regions of the size-axis far away (in size) from our knowable size-range. See fig. 7.
Summary
First we looked at Descartes’ ”thought exists” and ”the self exists”, claimed that it was two valid statements and pointed out the distinction between them. On the other side of the paper we wanted to represent anti-distinction (the opposite of distinction) defined as “that of which all is part” (Reality), and realized that since thinker/thought is stuck on the left side of the paper we can’t represent Reality. This is not only Kant’s “the thing is not the thing itself (the mental map is not the real territory)” but more importantly whatever cannot be taken to represent “that of which all is part” i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality.
All we know about Reality (atoms, humans, galaxies) fit into a size-time-diagram (every object has a size and a time), so the minimalist approach combining the above paragraph with this one is to use the first paragraph to prove that the size-time diagram has infinite
axes. This in turn leads to an existential theory which can be summed up as “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime” – and it has a predictive quality to it: somewhere in such an existence there would be a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape and thus we get reproduction/evolution.
So far we’ve looked at the theory of why size itself exists, why there is something rather than nothing – an existential theory beginning from certain truth and logically building its way up all the way to predicting evolution.
Part 2: Evolution
My explanation of evolution focuses on how important disease and bullying (power) was for evolution.
Power
means that
fish
were
fighting fish breeding more agressive fish = dinosaurs, then
wolfpacks with an alpha male.
But even before and after those eras in evolution the rule of power was in play.
In part one we had an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime (including the intertwinedness-separation-opposition and the time-axis with repeating Big Bangs perpendicular to the size-axis) that predicts a reproducing shape i.e. a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape: reproduction in an infinite size-range.
This infinite size-range predicts reproduction.
Part one was about why there is a sizescale of energymasspacetime: the answers are that the sizescale is infinite and that energymass is in spacetime. It predicts that there should be a reproducing shape: say that it is a triangle which gathers surrounding lines into a similar triangle – then it has reproduced itself. The products of this reproduction obey three rules: directly when there was reproduction three rules came into play, I´ve listed them below as 1, 2, 3 but they are not in order (they came simultaneously):
1:
There is life and death: those who survive survive and those who die are not in the game anymore. “The surviving survive”. It´s so simple – we see it in everyday life today. But everything in evolution will come back to these three rules so we might as well do the banal and bring them up.
So directly when there was a reproducing shape - so in our part of the size-range a DNA-strand which split in the middle and became two DNA-strands – the copy either survived or died.
2: The second rule is that the number of offspring has significance. That is to say: if you get one child or five children or ten children, there is a difference between those numbers – and in evolution it´s a benefit to have more children. One can also have zero children, and that is approximately like being dead.
Some would say that evolution´s meaning (the main task of life) is to make more offspring – that it´s the scientific meaning of life – Nature´s meaning: to reproduce. But I would answer that evolution makes more offspring (that´s reproduction) and making more offspring gives evolutionary benefits, but Nature itself does not care – it does not care about whether we nuke ourselves or not. There is no God that looks upon us and cares. Even reproduction becomes meaningless in the larger perspective. But in evolution it has significance whether one has zero offspring or ten offspring.
Rule number two (number of offspring matters) just as simple as rule number 1 (that there is life and death; that some live and some die).
The third rule that appered... – well all three rules appeared simultaneously directly when there was reproduction in this sizerange. The third rule is that:
3: There is mutation in every generation-shift. Things change. It doesn’t make perfect copies. Your child (if you have one) is not an exact copy of yourself or your wife – it’s a mutation; a change.
These three rules – 1: that there is life and death, the surviving survive. 2: That there are different nuances in the number of offspring. 3: That there is mutation in every generation-shift – these three rules came into play directly when the first reproduction occurred. We will return to these three rules over and over again; they are like laws of nature that like God says shall work on life directly when the first life reproduces itself. These laws of nature didn’t exist before the first life reproduced itself – they were not active then. They became active directly when there was reproduction.
These are abstract laws that we will manufacture, then we have the physical reality of that in a puddle of water a strand of DNA – a cell – made copies/offspring. Then viruses came into the game and injected its own DNA into the ordinary cells, that is to say: hijacked their reproductive system to create virus-offspring. If this would´ve continued the ocean would´ve been filled with only viruses, so there has to be some next step which made it so that our type of life survived. But the viruses added a 4
th
law (one of these abstract laws)
and that is: if you can hijack someone else’s reproductive system to create your own offspring; if you can inject your DNA into somebody else´s cell so that it creates viruses – I call this “power”. We will return to this word when we for example look at dinosaurs (they became bigger because the men killed each other to get the women whom make offspring). This power-principle was one that came after the three first ones.
The first cells reproduced and we had these three rules, then viruses came and injected their DNA and used “power” to produce more viruses. Then we get an immune-system which kills viruses i.e. protects the original organism´s reproductive system from being hijacked by viruses. So the immune-system evolved to take back the reproductive principle (2: the number of offspring matters); for the fact that one should retain the reproductive capability for oneself – so that no virus can take it over. So power has a lot to do with the number of offspring – principle 4 has a lot to do with principle 2.
We have multicellular organisms with immune-systems, we have viruses around them – and it´s an arms-race between that the viruses mutate to overcome the immune-system and the immune-system mutates to overcome the virus. Thus we have an evolutionary pressure on mutating the immune-system as much as possible as fast as possible (because the viruses mutate very quickly), and the best way to do that is to combine genes from two different organisms: a man and a woman. So sex has its beginning in viruses.
If this doesn´t make you feel comfortable contemplate this: the truth outweighs positive-thinking. But does one want to remove whatever spreads joy among people? Those who want to defeat the religious violence in the world (I think religion is the biggest unnecessary cause of hatred in the world) – one cannot defeat that without defeating all religiousness simultaneously. To want to defeat one part of religion but not the rest of it is like voting for the Republicans and Democrats simultaneously – it´s just unreal. Sadly one must remove the good to remove the evil. Meditation still remains and one can get a kind of anxietylessness from some thoughts still but in the big picture there are no reasons that support them anymore – it´s just a brain-trick that one does.
In our evolutionary story we had an immune-system which mutates, wants more mutations – we get two genders. Then men begin to war with each other (because, metaphorically speaking, women can produce offspring once a year while men can produce it every day – we have an imbalance; asymmetry). Why is it always men that start wars? It began with the first fish – we had multicellular life in our story so far, so they became a bit bigger, could swim around – we get fish: it´s easier to find food then and easier to move around. Directly when there were two genders there was one fish which evolved to use its teeth for killing other male fish. The first aggressor of course got the most offspring because there were no other men around. That´s why men go to war: they can produce offspring with so many women while a woman has no benefit from having 1000 men.
There´s a caveat to
this once we get to caveman tribes/wolf-packs where a woman secretly wants many men to provide resources to her child, but at least in the era between fish and dinosaurs the picture was simply based on asymmetric reproductive rates.
So then the male fish grow more aggressive, the child who is the biggest and has the sharpest teeth kills the other male fish, has the most offspring; and in the next generation, again: the child with the most aggression and biggest muscles gets the most offspring – that´s how we get to dinosaurs and T-rex. We had males competing/fighting with each other and that´s why T-rex is so large. That is, again, the power-principle: just like viruses took over the reproductive system from the first cells, T-rex takes away the reproductive system from his rivals by killing them. So this principle number 4 (power) lives on – it has caused/causes so much: it causes the first viruses, it causes T-rex, that fish become aggressive, that we get two genders (by viruses getting power – so we wanted to counter that power by immune-systems i.e. two genders).
These dinosaurs then, just like humans don´t seem to have (sarcasm), any concept of preserving natural resources – so they would´ve eaten up all their trees and not had any food left. But on our planet it seems to have been a meteor-strike which wiped them out, but on exoplanets i.e. overall in this evolutionary series of evolutionary pressures causing various principles (first the three first principles, then the 4
th
principle, immune-systems, two-genderedness, bigger
fish, fights between the fish, dinosaurs). The dinosaurs ate their natural resources and all large life dies - so only small rat-like/squirrel-like life-forms live on.
The trees grow back up – we get monkeys.
Groups tend to, in a fight – if it´s a group against an individual (one against many) – the group tends to win. So we monkeys form groups, fighting together for food against individualists. The individualists lost.
So we got this - or had it from the get-go (just like with the first aggressors) – instinct that makes us want to be highest in the hierarchy and thereby get all the women. Power again. But this time it´s a kind of human power – we saw power when viruses took over the reproductive systems, we saw power when dinosaurs outcompeted their rivals (the men), we see power when a bully goes to the top of the hierarchy, pushes down the other men – and the women want the bully´s resources (he has the most stuff) so they´re attracted to him, so he gets the most offspring – out of his offspring the one that is best at getting power the one that gets most offspring.
The reason for why the brain grew so fast during the past 100 000 years was because we used the brain to plan for how to climb upward in the hierarchy. The reproductive benefits coming from being
cchigh-status in the hierarchy were so great comparing to being low-status that this put great selection-pressure on bigger brains.
Now we basically have caveman living in hierarchical societies, we have kings, aristocrats and slaves – and that is how the world was 5000 years ago. The kings build monumental architecture (pyramids and such). Then someone focused on a random word – so someone focused on what we talked about in part 1: Reality (that of which all is part) and realized one cannot see it (because we should be part of it, or the other two proofs for not being able to see all there is to Reality) and thus they invented the word God: it is one, one cannot see it – we have the dawn of monotheism.
Someone random-focused on the word “soul/self” too and realized one gets less anxiety by making a distinction between the body
one sees in ones imaginations
(the body in one´s plans which tries to get reproduction, survival, resources, power, etc. – the three evolutionary principles that we listed in the beginning of this chapter). One sees a body in front of oneself which tries to make plans to get these things. But it is not that body which is “true” – instead it´s the observer which sees this body
which is “True” – and one cannot see that observer because one is it all the time. This was when they invented the Soul.
So the words God and Soul are legitimate concepts – then the church added a bunch of things like “the soul is immortal” and that “God said this and that to one or another person” (prophets and so on whom lied about a bunch of things). We also have the Golden Rule “do onto others like you would like to have them do onto you” which is a universal thing that they surely have on other planets: we are all humans, we want to be treated as of equal value. So from evolution we went from having cavemen to that someone came up with these
simple
thoughts, and then the church added a bunch of clutter to them. We thus have religions´ beginnings. The ideas of soul (the True self/observer which can´t be seen) and God (that of which all is part is One) are scientific ideas – so to some extent we have the beginnings of science.
Then people invented the telescope and microscope (to discover the sizes in the size-range), and we have a lot of knowledge and upbringing – but this is more intellectual history instead of biological history/evolution – but the intellectual has its foundation in the biological. So now we have gone through the whole story from the first cells to the birth of science.
I try to make this into a theory that is agreed upon by everyone; nowadays there are people who say that God (defined as a metaphysical mind) is needed to understand the theory of evolution – that there are mysteries within evolution. But I see no mysteries in this.
In a future book we will look at consciousness: which kind of emotional repertoire we have. We already said that we want power, we want reproduction, we want resources… But we will look closer at exactly which emotions exist and into which categories one can categorize them – and why they came about (what their evolutionary histories/pressures are). Which exact emotions? The feeling that one wants power, the feeling that one wants to help the flock, the feeling that one wants to plan how to get reproduction… - everything we do / the things that we do. For example I wrote this book because I´m at “war” with the enemies of civilization (“the enemy tribe”), because I want power out of selling this, reproduction out of getting status from having found a new way of describing some things, helping
countries ravaged by religion to become civilized (“helping flock-members”)…
These things drive me to do something intellectual. The emotional repertoire – that is to say: the diagrams about the brain – we can look at in the next book, because now we´ve looked at evolution and evolution created the brain so there is a lot of overlap.
Part 3:
The dawn of religion
No-one knows which kind of God emerged first (in protohuman minds). Was it the contemplation on Part 1 of this book (the oneness of Reality and it’s unrepresentability – focusing on the most all-encompassing concept)? Was there a war between two tribes/groups and to avoid soldiers from deserting one’s own group, the priest/king claimed to get his orders from a super-human invisible entity (which “looks better” than a mere human giving orders). Thinking
“they have a superhuman invisible commander while our group is just mere humans” is demoralizing for the group believing that the enemy has something mystical super-human communicating with their leadership. This kind of god is a tool of war. Or was the first God invented in dog-brain sized brains where a simple cortical circuit (the assotiations: the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) lessened anxiety.
We are after-all craving for the approval of “the hierarchical top”, we fear it... we have all kinds of emotions toward it and it can be imagined to love me, to dictate procedures like prayers to me, etc. It’s such a simple cortical circuit to define the hierarchy’s top as “that of which all is part (Reality)” and say that it loves me. That’s basically three concepts (hierarhical top (Reality) protecting me) – and it alliviates anxiety and gets us through dark nights of the soul. For the simple reason that it feels good to activate that circuit we try to “drug ourselves” by activating it over and over, emphasizing our belief in it, teaching it to everybody. The “hierarchical top (defined as Reality) protects me”-emotion
is one of those good feelings that we can activate at will. When we genetically engineer super-positive feelings to be activated by words, those new animals will propably activate their best emotions like a drug-addict seeks drugs – but they can activate it with words.
The circuitry is simple enough and panic attacks are common enough that I think everyone activates that “...protects/loves me”-circuitry during their life-time. Some choose to call it “belief in God”, others “the hierarchical top (defined as that of which all is part) protects me” and others don’t use any words for it because it is as unnoticable as digestion – something that naturally occurs in certain circumstances and one doesn’t need to be arrogant or proud of having that circuitry because it’s like 3-4 concepts (memorizing 4 concepts whom’s associations make us feel better is not a big feat).
Whichever type of God came first is lesser of a question, though, than: is heaven the same thing? Can “heaven” (and “hell”) be interpreted in a way that it makes sense? Heaven is obviously not a location in the sizerange (we don’t move in the sizerange when we die), so is heaven outside the entire theory (and thus “outside” (though this thing has no outside) that of which all is part)? No. Heaven may be synonomous to being good, and not some location in the diagram.
Maybe heaven is what the future genetically engineered super-happy animal will be in all the time.
Summary
Now that we know the three-pillar existential theory (like infinitely many extraterrestrials in infinite space thinks about it), we’ve got the beginning of evolution with a tiny DNA-strand (first reproduction sparking the three first evolutionary rules (1,2,3) and then the 4
th
(power). At the same time we see a continuum all the way to understand religions.
Since the infinitely many extraterrestrials are like us – they share the same logical evolutionary principles in sets following one another along time in a triangle-shape because increasing complexity is shown along the triangle.
It’s not like I don’t sometimes focus on the sentence “top of the hierarchy (defined as that of which all is part) loves and protects me” (“belief in God” in religious language).
Aliens can also prioritize what to focus on; what to take more off and what one wants to take less of. Aliens “judge” us based on principles like maximum happiness for all (animals, all humans), “do onto others like you’d want them do to yourself”. These are simple universal rules that aliens follow to maximize happiness in an otherwise brutal dog-eat-dog world.
What’s worth noticing
in this whole book
is the existential theory which predicts a tiny DNA-strand is more interesting because it is HOW God created the universe, or if you prefer: you remove God and the existential theory rests firmly on its three pillars.
To me, the core of religion seems to be different emotions to and from the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”). The context of course is hierarchical animals which were preceded by group-dwelling animals (we talked about this in part 2 of this book: evolution).
Having a simplistic association of concepts (merely the 3-4
concepts: hierarchical top – defined as that of which all is part – protects/loves/etc me) gives a relief of anxiety, fear, loneliness etc. Having the more complex picture of the same thing – the context surrounding it – makes the whole thing mundane because we realize that “hierarchical top” refers to our wolf-like nature and “that of which all is part” comes as an infinite sizerange.
As I’ve said I agree with the words Soul (true self vs false self; observer of the body in one’s plans vs. the body in one’s plans) and God (defined as “that of which all is part” and synonymous with Reality). But Heaven is a tricker question – what does “heaven” mean? It is obviously no unknown size-range in the infinite sizerange nor a location in space, nor can it be “outside” [that of which all is part]. I acknowledge that believing in heaven gives the same kind of fear-relief as “the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) protects me”, but like I said: I have trouble not being complex and analyzing “the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) protects me” (putting it in it’s sizescalian and evolutionary context), and with “Heaven” I have even more trouble because the single simplest thought ruins that idea. If I were to try to “believe in Heaven” I’d have to focus so hard that my mind doesn’t wander to even the most closely associated or easily retrieved scientific concept (because that destroys heaven). I do believe in doing good out of solidarity, and that doing good will reak its rewards for the millions of coming generations.
So to me Holy Books tend to contain only the following: different emotions to and from the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) , scientific truths like that Reality cannot be seen, heaven & hell and rituals.
Other than material pleasures like humor, I think we can find
condolence
in that being something in nothing with a bleak evolutionary story is more grim than we feel it to be; the truth hurts but not as much as we can feel. We are worse off than we realize and we should be happy we don’t fully feel our meaningless depressing situation which is made sense of in an unintuitive (and thus gives the feeling of confusion) way
(I’m thinking mainly of the three-PILLAR existential theory).
In Holy Books I also tend to find what I’ll relate to you in an anecdote: I was sitting in the back-seat of a car on vacation in a country which I had fallen in love with, whilst winter was raging in my home country. The driver of the car asked if I wanted a hazelnut croissant. I thought what was more important of a topic was for me to whine about that I don’t ever want to leave this country, I want my vacation to last longer, I don’t want to go back to the darkness and snow. So I said “I don’t want to go back to Sweden 🙁 !!” and the driver asked “what does this have to do with the hazelnut croissant?”. I put my answer in a joke: “the connection between the two topics is very deep and significant, but it’s hard to explain: it’s mysterious – and that’s religion.” I tend to find, to say the least, unintuitive associations between concepts in holy books (not meant as jokes).
About Heaven again:
So true justice is impossibly unattainable, which means that this world is inherently unjust?
Yes it's unjust and that seems quite obvious. The other day I heard two people talking: "life can't be this shitty without there being a heaven - there must be a heaven to make life worthwhile", I didn't say anything because their illusion makes them happy but I was thinking: "I am SURE there is no heaven and I can PROVE it scientifically. I even know that the true nature of the situation is worse than we feel it to be (intellectually only can we realize exactly how bleak human life is (and my book is to a large extent so meaninglessness-giving and depressing that one can make jokes out of it)). The only reason to keep living is out of solidarity and because science can create an animal which is 100% happy throughout its lifetime (maybe 100 years from now)."
So heaven was just the divine carrot at the end of the rainbow which acts as a counterweight to the stick that is life?
Do I believe in God, Heaven, The Day of Judgement, etc? As much as I believe that “the top of the hierarchy (defined as “that of which all is part”) protects me” – I use it sometimes. But then if I analyze it, it kindof breaks down: into a donkey with a carrot regarding heaven:
I’m trying to translate all religious concepts (and did well with God and Soul) into scientific language. I can’t do Heaven as a scientific translation except by using this donkey picture – I’m sorry!
The only hope I have of there being a heaven for anyone in the future is that humanity genetically engineers a super-happy animal.
I did well by translating
Soul into scientific language (the body with the plans and the see’er of the body in the plans) and I did well with God (that of which all is part) because it’s one, it can’t be seen,
it’s the cause of everything...
But with Heaven I really can’t do any better than this donkey-picture, and I’m sad about it. I still use the concept Heaven but in the religious way, I don’t use it in the scientific way because it just gets me sad (but it’s funny at the same time).
I “believe in Heaven” in the religious way, but I don’t “believe in Heaven” in the scientific way. Humans are capable of such cognitive dissonance.
Meta-commentary on this book
If the purpose of this book is to unify across religious-differences and build more agreement and thus friendship/trust in the world, then the overall structure of having three parts should remain the same no matter how the course/book is presented:
first
the existential theory because it predicts that there ought to be a tiny DNA-strand somewhere,
then
evolution (because it’s a continuation off of the existential theory/part 1),
then
other thoughts like the circuitry related to religion.
If we focus on ways to teach part 1 of this book (the existential theory), one has three options:
begin from Descartes’ certain truth (I think and I am) and make small logical steps all the way up to anti-distinction (that of which all is part) and how distinction vs. anti-distinction –opposition proves that the sizerange is infinite.
begin from Nothingness (spacetime) which is there “a priori” (needs no prior justification) and is emptier than we can imagine it as. Then state that that spacetime is non-absurd/non-bizarre i.e. that for example the case is not that at one moment 1+1=2, then 1+1=5, then 1+1=241, then 1+1=2 again. 1+1=2 is a law of nature inherent in spacetime, and so is Pythagoras’ theorems about triangles (a triangle is not a sphere because the universe is non-absurd). The laws of nature state
d
so far already hint at Existence (energymass) but E=mc
2
is a law of nature that certainly explicitly requires Energymass. Where is Energymass first summoned? In the smallest spaces, thus we get a dense Big Bang throughout the entire sizerange.
begin with stating the three pillars of the existential theory: (1) an infinite sizerange (2) of energymasspacetime (3) in intertwinedness-separation-opposition.
Including all three ways to begin should convince everyone of that this world-view is valid.
The way I go about teaching this course is universal, and the latest thing I’ve noticed about my course is that the number 3 repeats in many places: there are three ways to start the course (Certain Truth, Nothingness, 3 Pillars of the Existential Theory), the existential theory has 3 pillars, the first evolutionary rules (before power/viruses emerge) are 3.
Extraterrestrials would notice the number 3 popping up all the time too.
The diagram
This is the logotype infinitely many extraterrestrials, basing it off of science, paint on their T-shirts, caps and other merchendize. We’ve already talked about the infinite sizerange and the evolutionary theory (the square and the triangle), but the additional third part aliens would add to the diagram is their diagrams of the brain: the different categories (large or small, 3 of them) of hard-wired circuits:
homeostatic circuits, social/external-circuits and circuitry that gets activated when the two other categories of circuits aren’t active (these are gathering resources, curiosity (expanding one’s world-view), planning how to get power, planning how to get reproduction).
In our planning-system we have serotonine (the red line) and dopamine (the blue line).
The number 3 is a magic number because
there are 3 ways to begin this universal course (nothingness, certain truth or 3 pillars of the existential theory), there are 3 pillars to the existential theory, there are 3 first evolutionary principles and there are 3 categories of evolved brain circuits (social/external, homeostatic and cortex-idle).
3 is the
most
universal digit.
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen, Sweden
War and Boredom
– Religious wars continue because this book isn’t known enough, and it is not known because it is “boring” i.e. causes feelings of meaninglessness, depression etc.
Author
yonis
Posted on
31/12/2016
17/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on War and Boredom
2 Nobel Prizes
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/Untitled-Project2.mp4
Author
yonis
Posted on
12/12/2016
14/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on 2 Nobel Prizes
V 2-4
V2-4
Author
yonis
Posted on
08/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on V 2-4
Existential theory (2)
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/We-are-evolution-2.mp4
Author
yonis
Posted on
07/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Existential theory (2)
Summary in video (10 min)
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/Untitled.mp4
Author
yonis
Posted on
05/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Summary in video (10 min)
Latest version of my book
Warrior of Boredom
The title of this book refers to that it is hard to get through this book. The reason why this new science (that I present in this book) hasn’t been discovered until I did is because it’s depressing, anxiety-giving and BORING. But the question is: does everyone agree on it? If they do, that changes the Israel-Palestine-conflict where the parties of God are vetoing “the holy land”. Religion is the biggest cause for hate in the world, as Hitchens said. My book defeats religion – it’s a minimalist theory that works completely – a theory of Everything: existence (why there is size itself), evolution – even thoughts on the methodology for doing politics.
Philosophy = honor,
but anxiety/depression and boredom. Religion = no honor,
but less anxiety/depression and less boredom.
The big picture, accounting of everything, conflicts with certain positive-thinking brain-tricks and with our bias toward ignoring some negative/depressing aspects of nature.
The first part of this book will be a more detailed discourse about the following paragraph:
Descartes proved that there is distinction (between thinker and thought) - what's the opposite of distinction: "that of which all is part" (Reality). Since we are stuck in Descarte's thinker and thought-realm we can't see Reality, nor can "whatever" not represent it, meaning that there's more to it than can be contemplated/represented. Since all objects we know of fit in a size-time-diagram, this argument must mean that there is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram - and this in turn leads us to an existential theory (a theory about why there is size in the first place).
I realize that’s too fast of a paragraph to convince everyone and thus I want to convince the readers of this book to be warrios or boredom and see all my arguments.
Lecture 1
Descartes
One of the aims of this course is to get EVERYONE to agree so that they have the same associations between scientific concepts.
There is no other proper way to accomplish this goal than by starting with certain truth, which was found by Descartes in the 1600s. He lived in a time where they believed in demons, Gods etc. so he postulated a thought experiment where he assumed an almighty demon was fooling him in everything he could be fooled in: what would remain as certain truth – what could he not be fooled in?
If he was being fooled, where would still be a “he” (or self) there to be fooled, meaning that the self certainly exists. A self is necessary for a self to be fooled.
Descartes had thus concluded his own existence.
Being fooled is thinking – thus thought exists. “There is thought” Descartes concluded as certain truth. The word “fooling” represents a thought-process.
Descartes found the starting-position for any inquiry about truth: we can know certainly that thinker and thought exists.
Distinction exists (a logical conclusion from the above)
Looking at what we´ve found as certain truth so far “from above” (meta), we can take the next logical step – adding a third factoid to our 2-statement (A and B above) starting position: that there is distinction (
between
thinker and thought). The fact that thinker and thought are two separate entities concluded to be certain truth
s
through two
different
logical pathway
s
lets us conclude that “distinction exists”
. There are what Chinese philosophy calls “the ten thousand things” (referring to the world) – there are at least two (three if we include “distinction” as th
e third thing) certain entities, and empirically we know there are “ten thousand things” (not taking the number 10 000 literally but just referring to multiplicity).
First universal diagram
We can draw the thinker and thought and distinction between them as two dots with a line between them on a piece of paper (fig. 1).
Now we have something all religions agree on
– we´ve drawn up ideas and associations between them. Everyone ought to have the same associations (explanatory thoughts) between the concepts we´ve looked at so far.
We have, if you will – in figure 1 – a universal diagram.
Reality
We have the capability to conglomerate many separate entities under the rubric of a single category. If we use this capability to collect the “ten thousand things” (distinct entities) we´ve found so far into a single thing, we ought to give that thing a word/name. Its definition can be “that of which all is part” and “the opposite of separation/distinction”. I will use the word Reality to refer to this all-encompassing thing.
In lecture 2 I will present three proofs for that “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, but for now we can draw (adding to figure 1) a dot with a cross over it – the cross to symbolize that the dot itself is a false representation of Reality because we (the observer/self/thinker) should be part of that dot. See fig 2.
Thinking about what we´ve got so far
Thinking about what we´ve got so far (fig. 2) it’s a bundle of associations which make universal inter-religious (all religions agree on it) knowledge with both words and pictures.
In the next lecture I present why the line in fig 2 (see fig 3) represents the opposition/antagonism/disagreement/contraposition/divergence/variance between the two sides of the paper; between “thinker and thought” on one side of the paper and “Reality (that of which all is part; the opposite of separation)” on the other side of the paper.
Worth noting now is that the left side of the paper represents separation/distinction whilst the right side of the paper represents the opposite of separation/distinction – both are legitimate ideas: thinker and thought – and distinction – is certain truth based on Descartes and we all know which idea we refer to when talking about the all-encompassing [that of which all is part] Reality.
In the next lecture we will talk about why the line in fig. 3 makes it so that we can´t see Reality – I will present three proofs like in a crime case, and we will talk about what we can see if we can´t see Reality.
Making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far
1
See fig. 1 again: it´s our starting-point and the thinking that occurs in it happens in Descartes “realm of mind”; it is the mind´s realm (the left side of the paper) in which the thinking happens, and one thing we talk about is Reality on the right side of the paper in fig 3. Since the line in fig. 3 represents both the legitimacy of the ideas on both sides of the paper, and simultaneously the opposition between separation/distinction (on the left side of the paper) and [the opposite of separation/distinction] on the right side of the paper. That opposition is important and I will show its significance in lecture 2.
2
Starting from Descartes realm (of if you will: assuming that all we know is what we know for certain), we have the capability to state that there is a single Reality of which all is part – so even though we see separation we must grant that that separation (all entities) fits into a category we call Reality. There is a unifying whole even though the human mind (Descartes realm) is limited in its ways when it tries to contemplate Reality.
Not only is there the map-territory distinction (which will be presented as one out of three proofs in lecture 2), but there is also a more fundamental opposition between distinction and its opposite (there is a more fundamental opposition between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3). Not only are we stuck in the map-territory-distinction-realm but we also can conclude that no representation (regardless of the mind) is equal to Reality (on a more fundamental level than the map-territory-problem).
Representation is done in the brain using neurons and in a computer using electrons, but there is no reason why the most distant atom or quark couldn´t be proposed to be a symbol for [that of which all is part] – and even in that brainless scenario we will see in lecture 2 that “that of which all is part cannot be represented”. The map-territory-distinction is just proof/evidence number two in lecture 2 (for that we cannot see Reality and thus, since we do see/represent something, there must be more to Reality than can be represented i.e. the size-time-diagram (presented in lecture
2) is infinite along both axes.
Proof 3 in lecture 2 removes the brain from the equation and still proves that there is more to Reality than can be seen/represented/symbolized (using any means/any method – even without a brain), and since some representation is obviously (since we know that there are minds) possible, there must be more than can be represented/contemplated i.e. the size-axis is infinite and the time-axis is infinite in that two-axis diagram.
3
Both sides of the paper in fig. 3 are legitimate ideas. But still they are opposites (separation on one side and the opposite of separation on the other side). How can two derived-from-logic sides of the paper be opposites but still both be legitimate?
Usually opposition – like between Democrats and Republicans – means that one is right and the other is wrong; they can´t both simultaneously be right: you can´t meaningfully vote for both parties at the same time.
The case is different between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3: both sides are right and they are opposites.
There is a single Reality and there is multiplicity in distinction.
What does this mean? That there is more to the size-time-diagram than anything could represent – any representation fails (you can think of some
examples/suggestions for how to represent [that of which all is part]/[the opposite of separation]) – and thus the axes on the size-time-diagram are infinite. This is a hither to unpresented fact in science – it is new science: some of the best scientists ignorantly believe that the size-range is limited/finite.
4
We have quite a few associations and symbols in fig. 3 which must be agreed upon, and here I´m using the word “must” in the sense that “by the rules of logic X must be true”. Other civilizations throughout the infinitely many galaxies there are use the exact same ideas (but in a different language) and have the same associations between them (that there are infinitely many galaxies is derived from that the size-axis in the size-time-diagram is infinite). There is distinction as the third truth to be added to Descartes two fundamental truths (thinker and thought exist), and all that is opposed to (on the other side of the paper in fig. 3) to the all-encompassing Reality which is defined using at least two definitions: that of which all is part and the opposite of separation.
I´m tri-lingual but I write the same ideas and associate them in the same ways no matter which language I write in – its universal science beginning from certain truth. On other planets that have civilizations my writings in this book ought to match up quite near to the writings creating the same lecture series based on universal science that I´m creating
– “alien”/exo-planet
lecture series proceed, beginning from certain fact, through logical steps as I do.
5
[Thinker and thought] (certain truth) and thus distinction/separation are associated through negation/opposition to the right side of the paper in figure 3: Reality. The left side is not the right side just like separation is not its opposites. Both being legitimate ideas, though, connects them in the way that thinker and thought (and all other distinct entities) are in the category Reality.
Even though Reality and distinction are opposites, distinction dwells in (as a sub-entity within the category) Reality.
The associations between the left and right sides of the paper in figure 3 are both united through the notion “opposition” and through the notion that distinction is inherent in Reality (Reality being the opposite of distinction
because we have all-encompassing and its opposite: composite parts).
6
It is certainly true that all is part of a single Reality; but it is equally true that in every observation there is an observer and hence distinction (between thinker and thought). We see separate entities is as true as that the self that we are is not in front of us – but everything we see (thought/object) is in front of us.
That is evidence 1 in lecture 2 (not a proof, but a mere suggestion/evidence that [that of which all is part cannot be observed] and thus there is more to Reality than our concept of [infinitely much].
All we know about Reality has two properties: a size and a time. Size and time are two axes on a diagram, and thus all we know fits into the size-time-diagram (every object or location in space has a size and time).
There is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram because all suggested representors for Reality fail
(for three reasons taken up in lecture 2).
7
All
bundles of associations in this chapter “making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far”
are written in order to create some universal brain structures (universal because
science is the same everywhere (on all exo-planets), and their brains make the same associations too eventually). It´s not some random bundle of associations nor did I randomly present random ideas.
I assume the brain structure created by understanding this book is a replica of something derived from science; a replica of brain structures on the infinitely many other civilization-bearing planets. It´s a universal “ideology”, if you will.
Everyone has a possibility of sharing it in agreement – and future lectures will add a whole lot of complexity to it; agreement tends to build friendship so study is a way of bringing more peace to the world.
Once the full world-view is presented throughout this book, it´s a way of pacifying the world.
8
We have two brain-halves: one linguistic and one visual. So far we´ve both drawn pictorial representations and connected words – both brain-halves have been working. The connections across corpus collosum (which sits between the brain-halves and connects them) that connect a linguistic narrative/explanation to the pictorial representations are one day found in all humans thanks to science. Our brains are becoming more as science has a propensity to make them be.
This course itself, since it begins with certain truths and builds upon it logically, is a universal course (to the best of my ability).
The brain cells that constitute the negation (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 3) or opposition are not the same kind of cells (they are inhibitory neurons) that connect thinker with though as both being certain truths (but the thinker is not the thought and thus has inhibitory cells making that brain-structure work too
(what you are is not in front of you;
what you are is not visible).
Since both Reality and [what you are]/self/observer/thinker are invisible the brain might erroneously and spontaneously try to associate them, so a brain-structure is needed to inhibit that association (and replace it with a more complex explanation). That spontaneous but erroneous association is something all thinking animals throughout the universe evolved to do, and the inhibition of it through culture/civilizing/science is universally available within complex enough civilizations throughout the universe.
As you can see the brain structures responsible for doing this thing are quite complex, but also universal and thus accessible to all humans, and predictably will someday be in all humans (fostering agreement, thus friendship, thus peace).
Lecture 2
Perceive, apprehend, notice are synonyms for our representing ability, but I will use the word “see” or “observe” to refer to all of these. The goal of this lecture is to prove the statement “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, Reality being defined as “that of which all is part”. In other words: we cannot see Reality, and thus there is more to Reality than even can be contemplated (i.e. infinitely much).
I will build this lecture like a criminal court case: I will present three proofs for that we cannot see Reality i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated i.e. (since we can contemplate anything (right or wrong)) Reality is infinite.
Since anything/everything we know about Reality has some size and time, it fits into a size-time-diagram. See fig. 4.
In fig. 4 size is represented along the vertical axis and time along the horizontal axis. The objects humans see in everyday life (from the horizon to a single cell as one “pixel” in our visual field) are marked in “the human range”.
See fig 5.
In fig. 5 I´ve drawn the same diagram as in fig. 4 but this time with infinity-symbols in each corner of the squareical size-time-diagram. Two infinite axes become a square.
Proof number 3 in our “court case” for proving that the size-time-diagram (Reality) is infinite has us imagine the unobservable separatenessless Reality and ask whether there is a maximum or minimum size to/in it (a maximum/minimum being separateness while we are talking about the opposite of separation). This is again to confirm that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes.
The line we drew in fig. 4 was for separating the two sides of the paper; opposing “thinker and thought” (distinction) with its opposite: one all-encompassing non-distinction Reality. That opposition-line is what this lecture is about since it proves that the two sides of the paper are
separate/opposing realms and we are stuck in one realm as long as we are observers (because observation is separation/distinction (thinker and thought)).
Proving that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes is new science because it poses the question: what happened before the Big Bang (14 billion years ago), and it presents one pillar of our existential theory: that each size is the reason for each next and previous size, and the size axis is infinite, meaning the “beginning” of the relationship between sizes keeps retreating into infinity the more we contemplate the range of the size axis.
When I presented fig. 4 for the first time I drew a cross over the dot symbolizing Reality for the plain reason that we (as observers) should be part of that dot, and by the very nature of us being separate (and the dot representing the opposite of separation) we should draw a cross over it symbolizing that we cannot see it.
The main proof though is that even if all observers were dead there´d still be, inherent and fundamental in nature, the opposition between distinction and distinction´s opposite (the two sides of the paper in fig. 4). The line is an opposition-line and it is more fundamental than being dependent on humans/observers – it refers to all representation whether it’s using/including humans or not. I am, in other words, not talking about the map-territory distinction (which symbolizes that humans have mental maps and not the real world per se; like Kant said: we have “the thing” and not “the thing itself”). Proof 2 – the opposition-line between the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 – is not subjective: it is true that we live with the map-territory-distinction but even if I died there´d still be separate things (chairs separate from cups), that kind of separation is not dependent on me/observers. Simultaneously the flipside of the coin (the other side of the paper in fig. 4) is true too: all is one single Reality (the opposite of separation). Proof 2, in other words, should not be interpreted as signifying the map-territory distinction (human subjectivity) but instead a fundamental opposition in the universe.
If we do not see Reality, then what do we see? Everything we see fits into the size-time-diagram, and since the opposition-line in fig. 4 shows that there is a fundamental rule that states, in 3 different proofs, that Reality is infinite / there is more than can even be contemplated / there is more than even non-subjective representation can represent.
Proof number 1 is really weaker than a “proof” – it´s more like evidence. It wouldn´t hold up in a court but it is a way of stating what the other proofs too point towards. Proof 1 is what we saw when presenting figure 4: any dot representing Reality is an incorrect representation because the observer should be part of the object – the thinker should be part of the thought. It denies Cartesian separation and thus is untrue, meaning that anything we draw on the right side of the paper in fig. 4 is incorrect.
We can contemplate anything: we can speculate about what´s smaller than quantum physics, or even what´s smaller than that, etc. into infinity. We are probably wrong, but any contemplation/representation counts as a contemplation – and since we know that, whether right or wrong as our contemplations may be, there is more to Reality than can be contemplated, it follows that there must be infinitely much to Reality. Since all we know about Reality fits into a size-time-diagram, the minimalist approach is to state that it´s the size-time-diagram that is infinite.
This warrants two new words: the knowable/known size-range and the infinite size-range. The knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range. Since Einstein unified space (size) and time, one cannot be infinite without the other one being the same. Science today doesn´t know whether there was a “before” to the Big Bang or not (whether time was created at the Big Bang), but now we know that the Big Bang is just an event on an infinite time axis. In a future lecture we will talk about how/why the Big Bang recreates (happens over and over).
We talked about universal diagrams (and universal brain-structures) in lecture 1. The size-time-diagram is one major universal diagram. A lot of detail can be added to it because all fields of science fit into it. The infinity-symbols on each axis of the squareical diagram are drawn, based on science, on exo-planets with advanced enough civilizations.
This lecture is about proving that [that of which all is part] (the opposite of separation) i.e. Reality cannot be observed/represented, and that this fact is true irrespective of whether we are observers or dead, and applying this to the size-time-diagram (which gets its infinity-symbols into the squareical diagram).
Proof number 2 (the main proof) is the oppositional approach between Reality and distinction, and it is not subjective because Reality and Reality´s opposite exist even if we were dead. Proof number 3 is about imagining (even though no imagination is it) Reality as a big gray (because energymass is white and spacetime is black) solid, in which we know no observer should be (because observation is separation) – does it have separation i.e. a biggest and a smallest size? No, because such distinctions are not in the opposite of distinction (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 4).
I´ve mentioned universal associations in the brain / exo-planet science, so talking about the size-time-diagram we can add more universal notions to it: why did I draw upwards on the size axis as larger and downward as smaller? Why is the time-axis horizontally drawn instead of vertically? The diagram works even if we would define the vertical axis as time and the horizontal axis as size – so why do we draw size vertically and time horizontally? Is it universal i.e. on other planets or just a human convention like writing from left to right in English-speaking countries and right to left in Arabic-speaking countries?
Evolution has it so that during the history of science telescopes look upward and microscopes look downward. This would be the case on other planets too: they turn their heads upward to see the large and downward (onto a table) to see the small; the opposite can´t be true on any planet. Thus we get the size axis´ standard (of upward being larger) from evolution / the history of science. I use the word “standard” because it comes from evolution rather than being more fundamentally hard-wired into the universe such as the fact that the size-time-diagram is a square with infinity symbols. That the size-time-diagram is a square is not a standard – it is something stronger than that. The fact that we represent time on the vertical axis (and upward as larger) comes from a weaker source: tradition (even though that same tradition is true on all planets; evolution, in this regard, happens the same on all planets that end up with civilizations).
We thus have added standards or weak conventions (derived from history) in addition to having strong diagrams like the size-time-diagram being a square. The distinction between the two is made based on science and is thus made on exo-planets.
Scientists are looking for exo-planets that bear civilizations. If the size-range is infinite – as we´ve proven that it is – then each particular size (like the human range in fig. 5) is infinite too; if the largest is infinitely large then there is, considering the size of a human, an infinite distance in any direction that that human could find itself in. This makes civilizations on other planets a must, not an assumption. The known/knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range, and within the known size-range there is a range in which evolution occurs (between the smallest cells and the biggest organisms), and since we´ve proven that there are infinitely many objects within/of that size-range, then there must be infinitely many locations in which evolution occurs.
In the next lecture we will bind together the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 (distinction and distinction´s opposite; “thinker and thought” opposing Reality) with E=mc
2
(energymasspacetime) and with the infinity of the size-time axes, into a single existential theory which is a rival to “God created earth in 6 days…” The existential theory is a minimalist account for why there is a sizescale in the first place, and why there is something (energymass) rather than nothing (spacetime). It reminds me of this passage: “HITCHENS: In other words, as the great physicist Laplace said when he demonstrated his working model (his orrery, as it’s called) of the solar system to the emperor and Napoleon said, “Well I see there’s no God in this system,” and Laplace said, “Well, Your Majesty, it works without that assumption.””
In this chapter I´ve presented three proofs for that the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in it i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated; we do represent something but however we choose to represent (even representations that can be proposed as thought-experiments if we were dead) we do not represent Reality i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality. Are there any counter-arguments saying that the size-time-diagram is finite? I built this lecture like a court case and I´d like to hear the opposing side. There are no arguments that oppose what I´ve proven so far.
Lecture 3
E=mc
2
E=mc
2
as an equation is only used in relativistic scenarios such as very high speed or very high energy, but since speed is a continuum the equation is true at slower speeds. There is a difference between the equation being applicable (being needed while solving equations) and it being true; it is always true everywhere but it is not needed for equations except in special scenarios.
An example of the equation being true everywhere and always is this: nuclear power-plants turn mass (kilograms) into energy (joule), so that if you input 1 kg of uranium-mass you get out 99.9999 kg of waste products – some of the mass turned into energy which lights our light-bulbs. The atoms that lost some weight (that weight was converted into energy) are atoms just like other kinds of atoms, for example in autumn leaves. If you´d drop leaves into the core of the sun, the sun´s nuclear furnace would turn mass in the leaves into energy (light). Hence all objects are subject to the E=mc
2
-rule, which states that energy (E) equals mass (m). This warrants the word energymass because they are no longer two distinct things – they are but different manifestations of the same thing. In the brain
energymass should be a single idea whilst the concepts “energy and mass” refers to two different forms of a single idea.
Verbs and adjectives tend to refer to energy (shining, running, etc.) while nouns refer to mass (body, tree, etc.) E=mc
2
states that the two (verbs/adjectives and nouns) are together in a single equation. Although only applicable in relativistic scenarios (the role of relativism becomes close to zero in everyday human events, except that our light-bulbs shine because mass turns into energy and the sun can makes leaves into light), E=mc
2
is in a “philosophical” sense true everywhere and always just like Pythagoras’s theorem about triangles remains “philosophically true” even where there are no physical triangles. You wouldn´t say 1=1 is not true in empty space just because there are no objects there to count as “1”.
In addition to energymass being a single concept (and not two distinct ones), spacetime gets added into the mix by the c
2
-part of the equation. c is the speed of light (km/h) and thus a distance (space) over time – spacetime! Energymass (E=m) and spacetime (c
2
) should in the brain be represented by a single idea which we can call energymasspacetime. This harkens back to the previous lectures about Reality, which is a synonym for energymasspacetime. Einstein invented the equation E=mc
2
and thus unified in it energymass with spacetime – and synonyms for energymass are “existence” or “1” while synonyms for spacetime are “non-existence”, “emptiness”, “nothing” and “zero”. There is no more to be considered regarding Reality than energymasspacetime; energymasspacetime involves everything (energymass) and nothing (spacetime) so there is nothing more to be considered/added to Reality – Reality is energymasspacetime; everything is included into Reality once we have defined Reality as energymasspacetime.
The Existential Theory
Each culture seems to have a creation myth (such as genesis) – the creation of the cosmos/world/Reality is something humans have invented hypotheses for during millennia. The stories answer the question “why are we here?”
The true answer is unintuitive. First of all: why is there any particular size? What justifies, say, the size of a molecule? The answer is: the smaller and the larger (the rest of the size-range). Atoms justify a molecule and a molecule exhibits a place for atoms to live in: justifies atoms. Humans need an earth to dwell on (the earth is larger) and humans are made of cells (cells are smaller). Each size bears a relationship upon each other size – the smaller justify the larger and the larger justify the smaller. Since the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all four corners of the square (because of the proof where we had two sides of a paper), the size-range is infinite i.e. the pattern of justification between/amongst sizes continues into the infinitely large and infinitely small. What the ancients called “the first cause” keeps retreating into infinity size-wise the more we contemplate it. The size-range is like a fractal: you can keep zooming in or out infinitely much, and the question “why is there this particular object that I see” has its answer in the relationship between all the sizes: justification. Infinite justification is the reason why there is a size-range at all. But there is more that is needed for a full-fledged existential theory: two more factors play their roles.
Spacetime is emptier than we can imagine/represent it. We (and all representeurs) are energymass and thus are the opposite of spacetime. We could let a piece of empty space represent spacetime, but as soon as we use energymass (such as our brains) to do so, we´ve lost the truly empty nature of
spacetime: it is unimaginably empty. Any bundle of neurons, no matter how we wire it, is still the opposite of what they want to represent when they want to present us with spacetime. It is therefore useful to have two concepts for spacetime: (1) our simplest intuition of spacetime and (2) additional defining language explaining that spacetime is emptier than (1). This is how exoplanet civilizations would wire their brains regarding the concept “spacetime” too, just because it’s the most accurate science they can manage.
Just like energy and mass are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon, energymass and spacetime are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon. What does it mean for spacetime to be bundled together with (intertwined with) energymass? Everything exists as/in/because of nothing; 1 exists in 0; energymass and spacetime are together in the E=mc
2
-equation. Where could energymass/existence exist? In nothingness. Just like sizes justify one another, spacetime justifies energymass.
The last question that remains, after we have justification between sizes in an infinite size-range, and that all points in the size-time-diagram are made of energymasspacetime (and energymass is justified by it being in spacetime), is the objective fact that there both is a single Reality (the right side of the paper) and there´s its opposite: distinction (between, say, thinker and thought).
The existential theory builds on three “pillars”/fundamental ideas:
An infinite sizescale,
Energymasspacetime as in the equation E=mc
2
Distinction between distinction itself and distinction´s opposite (see fig. 1, 2, 3):
Between distinction (the left side of the paper, our 2 certain truths: I exist and there is thought) and Reality (the opposite of distinction; one Reality (not plural)) there is a line that demarcates distinction/opposition.
Putting it all into one phrase we might say: “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime with opposition between distinction and Oneness”. At its core it´s three ideas (infinite size-time-diagram, energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
), separation and intertwinedness (the two sides of the paper)). On exoplanets they would state their reason for their own existence using these three ideas too, because taken together they explain all that needs to be explained: first thing that comes to mind is that in the stated existential theory there must be a reproducing shape (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape; a DNA-strand) somewhere. If the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all three corners, then evolution ought to occur somewhere (and be made of energymass in spacetime, while being separate/distinct in a single intertwined Reality).
Most creation-myths have a quite simple (one-pillared) and mundane story: for example genesis just states that God created Reality (that of which all is part) in 6 days and rested on the 7
th
. The scientific rival to all such creation stories is a three-pillared theory – we can´t make it any simpler (we can´t make it one-pillared) and the same would be the case on exoplanets: they too can only break it down to three interconnected ideas/pillars/fundaments, so in thinking this way we share a common intellectual history with exoplanet civilizations advanced enough to figure out this existential theory.
On a test on this subject a question might be: “what are the three pillars of the existential theory?” – the question can´t be “what is the most important pillar in the existential theory?” All pillars are equally important but constitute as distinct ideas as E=mc
2
is from infinite size, or the separation-intertwinedness-opposition (fig. 3).
This three-pillared creation story – the sum of these three chapters – is built upon logic: it includes certain truths like “I think and I exist” (distinction/separation), its opposite (Reality for which we have three proofs for that it can´t be observed/seen/contemplated i.e. the size-time-diagram is infinite), E=mc
2
which unifies nothing/spacetime with existence/energymass, and the relationship between any two sizes (justification along the infinite size-range). Every one of these ideas relates very closely to Descartes´ certain truth, meaning we can be sure of the ideas themselves – and they together build up a minimalist existential theory which needs no further logic to explain everything there is.
Having an infinite size-range has a predictive quality to it too – it makes a prediction: there ought to be evolution (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar mass) somewhere in the diversity we see throughout even the known size-range.
Though as non-intuitive as the 3-pillar existential theory may be to our evolved brains who want a single conclusion, exoplanet civilizations have the same limits and biases as us: they too are stuck with three pillars in a single theory to make the theory explainable. Science is creating universal (exoplanet) neural pathways in our brains. We should embrace the fact that by being non-intuitive but true, this science wires our brain based on science and thus universally. It is the way (the wiring) that all planets are headed to if they´re into science. It´s a universal world-view. We´re thinking like aliens.
In current scientific debates the religious will argue that faith (in a dogma) is needed to (what they call) “understand” the existence of the universe. If confronted with my theory (these lectures) they´d have to agree that logic makes their God unnecessary as a pillar of creation. In the best case scenario God is simply a synonym for Reality (because Reality is “that of which all is part” and thus God ought to be part of it too, and all we know about Reality is that it is energymass in spacetime and separation in intertwinedness).
Having an explanation – the negative side of it is it being three-pillared and unintuitive, the positive side of it being that it accounts for all of Reality and predicts evolution – further justifies the saying “a God of the gaps” (meaning the more we understand the less we need God). Now all that remains to be understood – again in an unintuitive but identical to exoplanets -way – is how, on an infinite time-line, the Big Bang (denseness) recreates and fades away into sparseness (black holes removing energymass and dark energy creating more space until no galaxies are anymore visible).
Lecture 4
The beginning of the Big Bang
I have a hard time imagining how the universe can reach complete emptiness, but it wouldn´t be the first time the universe´s nature surpasses human intuition. In the history of science stars were observed to not move relative to one another on the night sky, and this was argued to prove that the size of the universe was much smaller than the now known size – it was argued that the universe would be “unreasonably big” if the stars didn´t seem to move relative to one another as the earth moved because they were so far away.
If only enough time is needed for the universe to become empty, then we get the starting scenario which is most reasonable: we start with emptiness (spacetime). Again, spacetime is emptier than our concept for it because we (and our concepts) are made of energymass.
If you move your hand one meter (from position 1 to position 2), the laws of nature that make your hand make sense were already in place in the space of position 2 before you moved your hand there. It´s not like the universe/spacetime was absurd in location 2 and only started to make sense regarding hands when you moved your hand there. We do not impact the laws of nature in such ways; instead the laws of nature are simultaneously and equally true at all locations and all times. In other words: Pythagoras’s theorem is true even in locations where there are no objects whatsoever, but the theorem is only applicable (to be applied) to triangles. In empty space there are no objects and thus no triangles, but Pythagoras´s theorem is true there anyhow – it does not suddenly become true (switch from being untrue to true) when a triangle is imagined or physically moved there. This applies to E=mc
2
too, which is just as much of a law of nature as Pythagoras´s theorem. E=mc
2
is true everywhere and always, though humans only apply (use) the equation in certain scenarios. Where triangles can be (in spacetime) there is also E=mc
2
. Laws of nature are fundamental and inherent in spacetime and do not come about depending on events (though our application/use of any particular equation is dependent on which event we´re analyzing).
There is distinction between the practical use of equations (to solve problems or understand a phenomenon) and the core nature of spacetime having laws of nature in it. Spacetime is a no-nonsense spacetime – we live in a rational (laws of nature-abiding) universe.
One law being E=mc
2
and another one being “if it is said it must exist” (meaning energymass can´t be mentioned in the laws of nature of spacetime without energymass existing), we get spacetime to summon energymass if the starting-point was complete emptiness. “If energymass is mentioned it must be summoned” (it is mentioned in E=mc
2
) is true because it would be a nonsense universe if it “talks” about energymass without there being any – just infinite space for eternity with laws of nature regarding energymass, but never any energymass appearing/being present. It would be a nonsense universe if energymass it mentioned but never exists. It would be akin to the universe telling lies (having all these rules like E=mc
2
but never applying them to anything), or the universe babbling gibberish (having inapplicable laws of nature).
Thus, E=mc
2
being a core property of spacetime itself and the “no gibberish”-rule applying, energymass must logically be summoned – but how and where? Extremely dense i.e. everywhere, in the smallest spaces, simultaneously. Why? Our starting-point is spacetime, which needs no prior justification because it is the opposite of existence: it doesn´t exist – it is emptier than our neurons make it out to be. In it Einstein´s theory of relativity is true, meaning that there is no center point (or in other words: all points are the center) so there is no center to the Big Bang. Another way of seeing it is that as soon as there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification), E=mc
2
became true in all locations (in the smallest spaces) simultaneously – no point in space was before another in having E=mc
2
be true in it. Spacetime having E=mc
2
as a core property has E=mc
2
be true everywhere simultaneously; once we have the launching-condition of empty spacetime, through E=mc
2
, energymass is summoned everywhere simultaneously.
This “everywhere” is all things within an event horizon, meaning that things moving away faster than the speed of light (due to dark energy/accelerating cosmic expansion) are not within our event
horizon: they are not part of what can be reasonably called “our 3-dimensional space” (from our location). Things are not part of our universe once their speed hits faster than the speed of light – and many locations, within the boundaries of their respective event horizons, will one day have all energymass moving away from them at speeds faster than the speed of light (this is just the observed fact of accelerating cosmic expansion). Such a finite space with no energymass within its event horizon (all energymass moving away faster than the speed of light) would constitute “completely empty space” i.e. our starting-point for the Big Bang (energymass being summoned due to E=mc
2
).
Consider an infinite size-range - it is made of energymasspacetime: if we draw it as the Y-axis on a diagram, there can´t be a region/length in it (such as the knowable size-range) which is completely empty forever. See fig. 6.
Because of the rules E=mc
2
and “if it is mentioned it must be summoned”/”no-nonsense universe” are true throughout the infinite size-range, there can´t be a region with just spacetime (with its laws of nature) because the laws of spacetime mention energymass; spacetime is inherently tied to and intertwined with energymass – existence and non-existence go together (at all sizes). There would be no logical breaking-point (a particular size) where energymasspacetime transitions into being just spacetime for a range of sizes and then transitions back into energymasspacetime; there is no logical breaking-point where the implications of E=mc
2
(the implication being: energymass and spacetime are in the same equation) stop to be true. The transition seen in fig. 6 is impossible (there is no “empty region”). Having an empty region would be akin to zooming into the decimals of pi and seeing no numbers for a specific array of decimals: 3.14159ÄÄÄÄ265359... The Ä´s can´t be there: it´s a continuous sequence of decimal numbers. There is no break/”empty region” in the continuous decimals of pi just as there is no region of the size-range that can be empty of energymass.
In this chapter I´ve written something akin to “
first
there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification unless you consider that the size-axis of the size-time-diagram is infinite),
then
there was E=mc
2
,
then
there was energymass summoned into the smallest spaces available (available = considered to be within an event horizon and empty)”. This harkens back to previous lectures´ talk about “alien logic” (how exoplanets think). To have it make sense to our brains we use the time-
distinctions “first, then and then” but the real distinction is not in time but in steps in a sequence of logic. In other words all the mentioned steps happened simultaneously to start the Big Bang: E=mc
2
was true as soon as there was spacetime, and as soon as there was that, energymass appeared as not to make the universe absurd (by it talking gibberish or it having an empty region like in fig. 6).
The end of the Big Bang
Telescopes observe that “space is being born” i.e. that the distances between clumps of energymass (galaxies) are getting larger, and at an accelerating pace too. Not only does the Hubble law state that an object a
million light
-
years
away would be receding from us at 21 km/sec and at double the distance twice the speed, but the law states that that speed (for example 21 km/sec a million light years away) is increasing. This is called accelerating cosmic expansion. It means that from our galaxy, when/if we look into the sky trillions of years in the future, we´d see no trace of any other galaxy let alone the cosmic microwave background (because their speeds have passed the speed of light and thus went beyond the event horizon). Once that object a million light years away from us which today is racing away at 21 km/sec reaches 299792 km/sec (the speed of light), it will pass from being within our event horizon to being outside our sphere of events.
This empties our universe or as Hitchens put it: “nothingness is coming”. Once that nothingness comes we have our starting point where we run through the logic of E=mc
2
–> “if it is mentioned it must exist/be summoned” (in order for the universe not to talk gibberish or the infinite size-range not to have a break in it) –> energymass begins as dense (because of relativity and because E=mc
2
is true everywhere simultaneously/equally).
We observe that nothingness (within event horizons) is coming, and beginning from nothingness there is unintuitive logic that has a predictive quality to it: the Big Bang should start dense. This theory works well with lecture 2´s proofs for that “there is more to Reality than can be represented” (the size-time-diagram is infinite) because size is essentially space, and space and time are intertwined into a single spacetime – hence: if size/space is infinite then time must be infinite too. In other words we have reoccurring Big Bangs interspersed along the time-axis of our size-time-diagram. As soon as a region bound by an event horizon becomes empty we have the universe´s no-nonsense-laws kicking in and E=mc
2
summons energymass (in the smallest sizes that are empty equally/simultaneously).
The sequence of consecutive Big Bangs´ beginnings (emptiness leading to energymass being summoned) and ends (accelerating cosmic expansion speeding things past a point´s event horizon and emptiness being summoned) are as infinite as the time-axis proved to be based on lecture 2´s proofs. Proving (in lecture 2) that spacetime is infinite fits perfectly with the reoccurring Big Bangs (when somethingness becomes emptiness and then emptiness summons somethingness).
There will in other words, between the beginning of a Big Bang and the end of that same Big Bang, be life within the conscious/human size-range (the different locations of that size already being infinitely many, see fig. 4).
Each size along the size-axis is defined as “3-dimensional infinite space” meaning there is infinitely much life with access to universal science (i.e. some version of this lecture-series), and within our region (bound by an event horizon) there is life between the beginning and end of Big Bangs. In addition I have hard to believe that a reproducing shape (and thus evolution) only occurs in only
one
size-range (the, for humans, knowable size-range) in an infinite size-range: there ought to be many sub-size-ranges as part of the infinite size-range where evolution occurs and can reach scientific knowledge. All life mentioned above, if they reach scientific understanding, would concur on the existential theory presented in these lectures (especially lecture 3 – the three pillars/foundations/ideas which together become a minimalist theory for why there is the infinite size-range of energymasspacetime in the first place).
This is not only exoplanet science – it is science between Big Bangs and it is science in regions of the size-axis far away (in size) from our knowable size-range. See fig. 7.
Summary
First we looked at Descartes’ ”thought exists” and ”the self exists”, claimed that it was two valid statements and pointed out the distinction between them. On the other side of the paper we wanted to represent anti-distinction (the opposite of distinction) defined as “that of which all is part” (Reality), and realized that since thinker/thought is stuck on the left side of the paper we can’t represent Reality. This is not only Kant’s “the thing is not the thing itself (the mental map is not the real territory)” but more importantly whatever cannot be taken to represent “that of which all is part” i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality.
All we know about Reality (atoms, humans, galaxies) fit into a size-time-diagram (every object has a size and a time), so the minimalist approach combining the above paragraph with this one is to use the first paragraph to prove that the size-time diagram has infinite
axes. This in turn leads to an existential theory which can be summed up as “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime” – and it has a predictive quality to it: somewhere in such an existence there would be a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape and thus we get reproduction/evolution.
So far we’ve looked at the theory of why size itself exists, why there is something rather than nothing – an existential theory beginning from certain truth and logically building its way up all the way to predicting evolution.
Part 2: Evolution
My explanation of evolution focuses on how important disease and bullying (power) was for evolution.
Power
means that
fish
were
fighting fish breeding more agressive fish = dinosaurs, then wolfpacks with an alpha male.
But even before and after those eras in evolution the rule of power was in play.
In part one we had an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime (including the intertwinedness-separation-opposition and the time-axis with repeating Big Bangs perpendicular to the size-axis) that predicts a reproducing shape i.e. a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape: reproduction in an infinite size-range.
This infinite size-range predicts reproduction.
Part one was about why there is a sizescale of energymasspacetime: the answers are that the sizescale is infinite and that energymass is in spacetime. It predicts that there should be a reproducing shape: say that it is a triangle which gathers surrounding lines into a similar triangle – then it has reproduced itself. The products of this reproduction obey three rules: directly when there was reproduction three rules came into play, I´ve listed them below as 1, 2, 3 but they are not in order (they came simultaneously):
1:
There is life and death: those who survive survive and those who die are not in the game anymore. “The surviving survive”. It´s so simple – we see it in everyday life today. But everything in evolution will come back to these three rules so we might as well do the banal and bring them up.
So directly when there was a reproducing shape - so in our part of the size-range a DNA-strand which split in the middle and became two DNA-strands – the copy either survived or died.
2: The second rule is that the number of offspring has significance. That is to say: if you get one child or five children or ten children, there is a difference between those numbers – and in evolution it´s a benefit to have more children. One can also have zero children, and that is approximately like being dead.
Some would say that evolution´s meaning (the main task of life) is to make more offspring – that it´s the scientific meaning of life – Nature´s meaning: to reproduce. But I would answer that evolution makes more offspring (that´s reproduction) and making more offspring gives evolutionary benefits, but Nature itself does not care – it does not care about whether we nuke ourselves or not. There is no God that looks upon us and cares. Even reproduction becomes meaningless in the larger perspective. But in evolution it has significance whether one has zero offspring or ten offspring.
Rule number two (number of offspring matters) just as simple as rule number 1 (that there is life and death; that some live and some die).
The third rule that appered... – well all three rules appeared simultaneously directly when there was reproduction in this sizerange. The third rule is that:
3: There is mutation in every generation-shift. Things change. It doesn’t make perfect copies. Your child (if you have one) is not an exact copy of yourself or your wife – it’s a mutation; a change.
These three rules – 1: that there is life and death, the surviving survive. 2: That there are different nuances in the number of offspring. 3: That there is mutation in every generation-shift – these three rules came into play directly when the first reproduction occurred. We will return to these three rules over and over again; they are like laws of nature that like God says shall work on life directly when the first life reproduces itself. These laws of nature didn’t exist before the first life reproduced itself – they were not active then. They became active directly when there was reproduction.
These are abstract laws that we will manufacture, then we have the physical reality of that in a puddle of water a strand of DNA – a cell – made copies/offspring. Then viruses came into the game and injected its own DNA into the ordinary cells, that is to say: hijacked their reproductive system to create virus-offspring. If this would´ve continued the ocean would´ve been filled with only viruses, so there has to be some next step which made it so that our type of life survived. But the viruses added a 4
th
law (one of these abstract laws)
and that is: if you can hijack someone else’s reproductive system to create your own offspring; if you can inject your DNA into somebody else´s cell so that it creates viruses – I call this “power”. We will return to this word when we for example look at dinosaurs (they became bigger because the men killed each other to get the women whom make offspring). This power-principle was one that came after the three first ones.
The first cells reproduced and we had these three rules, then viruses came and injected their DNA and used “power” to produce more viruses. Then we get an immune-system which kills viruses i.e. protects the original organism´s reproductive system from being hijacked by viruses. So the immune-system evolved to take back the reproductive principle (2: the number of offspring matters); for the fact that one should retain the reproductive capability for oneself – so that no virus can take it over. So power has a lot to do with the number of offspring – principle 4 has a lot to do with principle 2.
We have multicellular organisms with immune-systems, we have viruses around them – and it´s an arms-race between that the viruses mutate to overcome the immune-system and the immune-
system mutates to overcome the virus. Thus we have an evolutionary pressure on mutating the immune-system as much as possible as fast as possible (because the viruses mutate very quickly), and the best way to do that is to combine genes from two different organisms: a man and a woman. So sex has its beginning in viruses.
If this doesn´t make you feel comfortable contemplate this: the truth outweighs positive-thinking. But does one want to remove whatever spreads joy among people? Those who want to defeat the religious violence in the world (I think religion is the biggest unnecessary cause of hatred in the world) – one cannot defeat that without defeating all religiousness simultaneously. To want to defeat one part of religion but not the rest of it is like voting for the Republicans and Democrats simultaneously – it´s just unreal. Sadly one must remove the good to remove the evil. Meditation still remains and one can get a kind of anxietylessness from some thoughts still but in the big picture there are no reasons that support them anymore – it´s just a brain-trick that one does.
In our evolutionary story we had an immune-system which mutates, wants more mutations – we get two genders. Then men begin to war with each other (because, metaphorically speaking, women can produce offspring once a year while men can produce it every day – we have an imbalance; asymmetry). Why is it always men that start wars? It began with the first fish – we had multicellular life in our story so far, so they became a bit bigger, could swim around – we get fish: it´s easier to find food then and easier to move around. Directly when there were two genders there was one fish which evolved to use its teeth for killing other male fish. The first aggressor of course got the most offspring because there were no other men around. That´s why men go to war: they can produce offspring with so many women while a woman has no benefit from having 1000 men.
There´s a caveat to
this once we get to caveman tribes/wolf-packs where a woman secretly wants many men to provide resources to her child, but at least in the era between fish and dinosaurs the picture was simply based on asymmetric reproductive rates.
So then the male fish grow more aggressive, the child who is the biggest and has the sharpest teeth kills the other male fish, has the most offspring; and in the next generation, again: the child with the most aggression and biggest muscles gets the most offspring – that´s how we get to dinosaurs and T-rex. We had males competing/fighting with each other and that´s why T-rex is so large. That is, again, the power-principle: just like viruses took over the reproductive system from the first cells, T-rex takes away the reproductive system from his rivals by killing them. So this principle number 4 (power) lives on – it has caused/causes so much: it causes the first viruses, it causes T-rex, that fish become aggressive, that we get two genders (by viruses getting power – so we wanted to counter that power by immune-systems i.e. two genders).
These dinosaurs then, just like humans don´t seem to have (sarcasm), any concept of preserving natural resources – so they would´ve eaten up all their trees and not had any food left. But on our planet it seems to have been a meteor-strike which wiped them out, but on exoplanets i.e. overall in this evolutionary series of evolutionary pressures causing various principles (first the three first principles, then the 4
th
principle, immune-systems, two-genderedness, bigger
fish, fights between the fish, dinosaurs). The dinosaurs ate their natural resources and all large life dies - so only small rat-like/squirrel-like life-forms live on.
The trees grow back up – we get monkeys.
Groups tend to, in a fight – if it´s a group against an individual (one against many) – the group tends to win. So we monkeys form groups, fighting together for food against individualists. The individualists lost.
So we got this - or had it from the get-go (just like with the first aggressors) – instinct that makes us want to be highest in the hierarchy and thereby get all the women. Power again. But this time it´s a kind of human power – we saw power when viruses took over the reproductive systems, we saw power when dinosaurs outcompeted their rivals (the men), we see power when a bully goes to the top of the hierarchy, pushes down the other men – and the women want the bully´s resources (he has the most stuff) so they´re attracted to him, so he gets the most offspring – out of his offspring the one that is best at getting power the one that gets most offspring.
The reason for why the brain grew so fast during the past 100 000 years was because we used the brain to plan for how to climb upward in the hierarchy. The reproductive benefits coming from being high-status in the hierarchy were so great comparing to being low-status that this put great selection-pressure on bigger brains.
Now we basically have caveman living in hierarchical societies, we have kings, aristocrats and slaves – and that is how the world was 5000 years ago. The kings build monumental architecture (pyramids and such). Then someone focused on a random word – so someone focused on what we talked about in part 1: Reality (that of which all is part) and realized one cannot see it (because we should be part of it, or the other two proofs for not being able to see all there is to Reality) and thus they invented the word God: it is one, one cannot see it – we have the dawn of monotheism.
Someone random-focused on the word “soul/self” too and realized one gets less anxiety by making a distinction between the body
one sees in ones imaginations
21.12
Author
yonis
Posted on
30/11/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Latest version of my book
Del 2: Evolutionsteorin
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/del2-interse-evolution.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
14/11/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Del 2: Evolutionsteorin
Posts navigation
Page
1
Page
2
Next page
Search for:
Search
Recent Posts
Talet 3
Sammanfattning universell kurs interse 11-01-2017
From Certain Truth to Dinosaurs (with Maan and Marwan)
War and Boredom
2 Nobel Prizes
Recent Comments
Archives
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
January 2016
Categories
Dagbok
Old
The book + diagrams
Trashcan
Trey
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.org
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Proudly powered by WordPress

Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen – Everyone needs to know the basics
Skip to content
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Everyone needs to know the basics
Talet 3
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/talet-3.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
17/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Talet 3
Sammanfattning universell kurs interse 11-01-2017
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/sammanfattning-universell-kurs-interse-11-01-2017.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
11/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Sammanfattning universell kurs interse 11-01-2017
From Certain Truth to Dinosaurs (with Maan and Marwan)
Author
yonis
Posted on
05/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on From Certain Truth to Dinosaurs (with Maan and Marwan)
War and Boredom
War-and-Boredom
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen, Sweden
1
War and Boredom
The title of this book refers to that it is hard to get through this book. The reason why this new science (that I present in this book) hasn’t been discovered until I did is because part 1 of this book gives a sense of meaninglessness toward the Universe and part 2 deals with evolution in a depressing way because the main trend is “power”.
Writing it gave me anxiety and reading it gives many people anxiety.
But the question is: does everyone agree on it? If they do, that changes the Israel-Palestine-conflict where the parties of God are vetoing
regarding the borders of
the
“holy land”; it changes religious extremism and the wars fought over it. Religion is the biggest cause for hatred
in the world, as Hitchens said. My book
is
a minimalist theory
that
encompasses all one needs to understand
Everything: existence (why there is size itself) and
evolution – even thoughts about the future of humanity/evolution.
Even though there comes a sense of meaninglessness from knowing the existential theory and a sense of depression from knowing evolution, there is
a sense of
honor in having the right world-view.
Most importantly, the religious wars - ISIS/Israel/etc. - can be demolished by a world-view which everyone agrees on. War only continues because it is boring to learn and teach the course I present in this book. Hence the book´s name: War and Boredom, or: how boredom (toward science) keeps the wars continuing.
Not only can this book end wars, but it can unify people so that they feel more friendliness toward each other – science is a language and speaking the same language makes it easier to make friends. Having the same associations between concepts (a scientific world-view) gives people a lot to agree on, they´ll “speak the same language”.
If anyhow you get too bored to study further, there are three parts to this book (1: the existential theory, 2: evolution, 3: the dawn of religion), and they’re written with different styles. You may jump to either part directly.
Lecture 1
Descartes
One of the aims of this course is to get EVERYONE to agree so that they have the same associations between scientific concepts.
There is no other proper way to accomplish this goal than by starting with certain truth, which was found by Descartes in the 1600s. He lived in a time where they believed in demons, Gods etc. so he postulated a thought experiment where he assumed an almighty demon was fooling him in everything he could be fooled in: what would remain as certain truth – what could he not be fooled in?
If he was being fooled, where would still be a “he” (or self) there to be fooled, meaning that the self certainly exists. A self is necessary for a self to be fooled.
Descartes had thus concluded his own existence.
Being fooled is thinking – thus thought exists. “There is thought” Descartes concluded as certain truth. The word “fooling” represents a thought-process.
Descartes found the starting-position for any inquiry about truth: we can know certainly that thinker and thought exists.
Distinction exists (a logical conclusion from the above)
Looking at what we´ve found as certain truth so far “from above” (meta), we can take the next logical step – adding a third factoid to our 2-statement (A and B above) starting position: that there is distinction (
between
thinker and thought). The fact that thinker and thought are two separate entities concluded to be certain truth
s
through two
different
logical pathway
s
lets us conclude that “distinction exists”
. There are what Chinese philosophy calls “the ten thousand things” (referring to the world) – there are at least two (three if we include “distinction” as th
e third thing) certain entities, and empirically we know there are “ten thousand things” (not taking the number 10 000 literally but just referring to multiplicity).
First universal diagram
We can draw the thinker and thought and distinction between them as two dots with a line between them on a piece of paper (fig. 1).
Now we have something all religions agree on
– we´ve drawn up ideas and associations between them. Everyone ought to have the same associations (explanatory thoughts) between the concepts we´ve looked at so far.
We have, if you will – in figure 1 – a universal diagram.
Reality
We have the capability to conglomerate many separate entities under the rubric of a single category. If we use this capability to collect the “ten thousand things” (distinct entities) we´ve found so far into a single thing, we ought to give that thing a word/name. Its definition can be “that of which all is
part” and “the opposite of separation/distinction”. I will use the word Reality to refer to this all-encompassing thing.
In lecture 2 I will present three proofs for that “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, but for now we can draw (adding to figure 1) a dot with a cross over it – the cross to symbolize that the dot itself is a false representation of Reality because we (the observer/self/thinker) should be part of that dot. See fig 2.
Thinking about what we´ve got so far
Thinking about what we´ve got so far (fig. 2) it’s a bundle of associations which make universal inter-religious (all religions agree on it) knowledge with both words and pictures.
In the next lecture I present why the line in fig 2 (see fig 3) represents the opposition/antagonism/disagreement/contraposition/divergence/variance between the two sides of the paper; between “thinker and thought” on one side of the paper and “Reality (that of which all is part; the opposite of separation)” on the other side of the paper.
Worth noting now is that the left side of the paper represents separation/distinction whilst the right side of the paper represents the opposite of separation/distinction – both are legitimate ideas: thinker and thought – and distinction – is certain truth based on Descartes and we all know which idea we refer to when talking about the all-encompassing [that of which all is part] Reality.
In the next lecture we will talk about why the line in fig. 3 makes it so that we can´t see Reality – I will present three proofs like in a crime case, and we will talk about what we can see if we can´t see Reality.
Making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far
1
See fig. 1 again: it´s our starting-point and the thinking that occurs in it happens in Descartes “realm of mind”; it is the mind´s realm (the left side of the paper) in which the thinking happens, and one thing we talk about is Reality on the right side of the paper in fig 3. Since the line in fig. 3 represents both the legitimacy of the ideas on both sides of the paper, and simultaneously the opposition between separation/distinction (on the left side of the paper) and [the opposite of separation/distinction] on the right side of the paper. That opposition is important and I will show its significance in lecture 2.
2
Starting from Descartes realm (of if you will: assuming that all we know is what we know for certain), we have the capability to state that there is a single Reality of which all is part – so even though we see separation we must grant that that separation (all entities) fits into a category we call Reality. There is a unifying whole even though the human mind (Descartes realm) is limited in its ways when it tries to contemplate Reality.
Not only is there the map-territory distinction (which will be presented as one out of three proofs in lecture 2), but there is also a more fundamental opposition between distinction and its opposite (there is a more fundamental opposition between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3). Not only are we stuck in the map-territory-distinction-realm but we also can conclude that no representation (regardless of the mind) is equal to Reality (on a more fundamental level than the map-territory-problem).
Representation is done in the brain using neurons and in a computer using electrons, but there is no reason why the most distant atom or quark couldn´t be proposed to be a symbol for [that of which all is part] – and even in that brainless scenario we will see in lecture 2 that “that of which all is part cannot be represented”. The map-territory-distinction is just proof/evidence number two in lecture 2 (for that we cannot see Reality and thus, since we do see/represent something, there must be more to Reality than can be represented i.e. the size-time-diagram (presented in lecture
2) is infinite along both axes.
Proof 3 in lecture 2 removes the brain from the equation and still proves that there is more to Reality than can be seen/represented/symbolized (using any means/any method – even without a brain), and since some representation is obviously (since we know that there are minds) possible, there must be more than can be represented/contemplated i.e. the size-axis is infinite and the time-axis is infinite in that two-axis diagram.
3
Both sides of the paper in fig. 3 are legitimate ideas. But still they are opposites (separation on one side and the opposite of separation on the other side). How can two derived-from-logic sides of the paper be opposites but still both be legitimate?
Usually opposition – like between Democrats and
Republicans – means that one is right and the other is wrong; they can´t both simultaneously be right: you can´t meaningfully vote for both parties at the same time.
The case is different between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3: both sides are right and they are opposites.
There is a single Reality and there is multiplicity in distinction.
What does this mean? That there is more to the size-time-diagram than anything could represent – any representation fails (you can think of some examples/suggestions for how to represent [that of which all is part]/[the opposite of separation]) – and thus the axes on the size-time-diagram are infinite. This is a hither to unpresented fact in science – it is new science: some of the best scientists ignorantly believe that the size-range is limited/finite.
4
We have quite a few associations and symbols in fig. 3 which must be agreed upon, and here I´m using the word “must” in the sense that “by the rules of logic X must be true”. Other civilizations throughout the infinitely many galaxies there are use the exact same ideas (but in a different language) and have the same associations between them (that there are infinitely many galaxies is derived from that the size-axis in the size-time-diagram is infinite). There is distinction as the third truth to be added to Descartes two fundamental truths (thinker and thought exist), and all that is opposed to (on the other side of the paper in fig. 3) to the all-encompassing Reality which is defined using at least two definitions: that of which all is part and the opposite of separation.
I´m tri-lingual but I write the same ideas and associate them in the same ways no matter which language I write in – its universal science beginning from certain truth. On other planets that have civilizations my writings in this book ought to match up quite near to the writings creating the same lecture series based on universal science that I´m creating
– “alien”/exo-planet
lecture series proceed, beginning from certain fact, through logical steps as I do.
5
[Thinker and thought] (certain truth) and thus distinction/separation are associated through negation/opposition to the right side of the paper in figure 3: Reality. The left side is not the right side just like separation is not its opposites. Both being legitimate ideas, though, connects them in the way that thinker and thought (and all other distinct entities) are in the category Reality.
Even though Reality and distinction are opposites, distinction dwells in (as a sub-entity within the category) Reality.
The associations between the left and right sides of the paper in figure 3 are both united through the notion “opposition” and through the notion that distinction is inherent in Reality (Reality being the opposite of distinction
because we have all-encompassing and its opposite: composite parts).
6
It is certainly true that all is part of a single Reality; but it is equally true that in every observation there is an observer and hence distinction (between thinker and thought). We see separate entities is as true as that the self that we are is not in front of us – but everything we see (thought/object) is in front of us.
That is evidence 1 in lecture 2 (not a proof, but a mere suggestion/evidence that [that of which all is part cannot be observed] and thus there is more to Reality than our concept of [infinitely much].
All we know about Reality has two properties: a size and a time. Size and time are two axes on a diagram, and thus all we know fits into the size-time-diagram (every object or location in space
has a size and time).
There is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram because all suggested representors for Reality fail
(for three reasons taken up in lecture 2).
7
All
bundles of associations in this chapter “making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far”
are written in order to create some universal brain structures (universal because science is the same everywhere (on all exo-planets), and their brains make the same associations too eventually). It´s not some random bundle of associations nor did I randomly present random ideas.
I assume the brain structure created by understanding this book is a replica of something derived from science; a replica of brain structures on the infinitely many other civilization-bearing planets. It´s a universal “ideology”, if you will.
Everyone has a possibility of sharing it in agreement – and future lectures will add a whole lot of complexity to it; agreement tends to build friendship so study is a way of bringing more peace to the world.
Once the full world-view is presented throughout this book, it´s a way of pacifying the world.
8
We have two brain-halves: one linguistic and one visual. So far we´ve both drawn pictorial representations and connected words – both brain-halves have been working. The connections across corpus collosum (which sits between the brain-halves and connects them) that connect a linguistic narrative/explanation to the pictorial representations are one day found in all humans thanks to science. Our brains are becoming more as science has a propensity to make them be.
This course itself, since it begins with certain truths and builds upon it logically, is a universal course (to the best of my ability).
The brain cells that constitute the negation (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 3) or opposition are not the same kind of cells (they are inhibitory neurons) that connect thinker with though as both being certain truths (but the thinker is not the thought and thus has inhibitory cells making that brain-structure work too
(what you are is not in front of you;
what you are is not visible).
Since both Reality and [what you are]/self/observer/thinker are invisible the brain might erroneously and spontaneously try to associate them, so a brain-structure is needed to inhibit that association (and replace it with a more complex explanation). That spontaneous but erroneous association is something all thinking animals throughout the universe evolved to do, and the inhibition of it through culture/civilizing/science is universally available within complex enough civilizations throughout the universe.
As you can see the brain structures responsible for doing this thing are quite complex, but also universal and thus accessible to all humans, and predictably will someday be in all humans (fostering agreement, thus friendship, thus peace).
Lecture 2
Perceive, apprehend, notice are synonyms for our representing ability, but I will use the word “see” or “observe” to refer to all of these. The goal of this lecture is to prove the statement “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, Reality being defined as “that of which all is part”. In other words: we cannot see Reality, and thus there is more to Reality than even can be contemplated (i.e. infinitely much).
I will build this lecture like a criminal court case: I will present three proofs for that we cannot see Reality i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated i.e. (since we can contemplate anything (right or wrong)) Reality is infinite.
Since anything/everything we know about Reality has some size and time, it fits into a size-time-diagram. See fig. 4.
In fig. 4 size is represented along the vertical axis and time along the horizontal axis. The objects humans see in everyday life (from the horizon to a single cell as one “pixel” in our visual field) are marked in “the human range”.
See fig 5.
In fig. 5 I´ve drawn the same diagram as in fig. 4 but this time with infinity-symbols in each corner of the squareical size-time-diagram. Two infinite axes become a square.
Proof number 3 in our “court case” for proving that the size-time-diagram (Reality) is infinite has us imagine the unobservable separatenessless Reality and ask whether there is a maximum or minimum size to/in it (a maximum/minimum being separateness while we are talking about the opposite of separation). This is again to confirm that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes.
The line we drew in fig. 4 was for separating the two sides of the paper; opposing “thinker and thought” (distinction) with its opposite: one all-encompassing non-distinction Reality. That opposition-line is what this lecture is about since it proves that the two sides of the paper are separate/opposing realms and we are stuck in one realm as long as we are observers (because observation is separation/distinction (thinker and thought)).
Proving that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes is new science because it poses the question: what happened before the Big Bang (14 billion years ago), and it presents one pillar of our existential theory: that each size is the reason for each next and previous size, and the size axis is infinite, meaning the “beginning” of the relationship between sizes keeps retreating into infinity the more we contemplate the range of the size axis.
When I presented fig. 4 for the first time I drew a cross over the dot symbolizing Reality for the plain reason that we (as observers) should be part of that dot, and by the very nature of us being separate (and the dot representing the opposite of separation) we should draw a cross over it symbolizing that we cannot see it.
The main proof though is that even if all observers were dead there´d still be, inherent and fundamental in nature, the opposition between distinction and distinction´s opposite (the two sides of the paper in fig. 4). The line is an opposition-line and it is more fundamental than being dependent on humans/observers – it refers to all representation whether it’s using/including humans or not. I am, in other words, not talking about the map-territory distinction (which symbolizes that humans have mental maps and not the real world per se; like Kant said: we have “the thing” and not “the thing itself”). Proof 2 – the opposition-line between the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 – is not subjective: it is true that we live with the map-territory-distinction but even if I died there´d still be separate things (chairs separate from cups), that kind of separation is not dependent on me/observers. Simultaneously the flipside of the coin (the other side of the paper in fig. 4) is true too: all is one single Reality (the opposite of separation). Proof 2, in other words, should not be interpreted as signifying the map-territory distinction (human subjectivity) but instead a fundamental opposition in the universe.
If we do not see Reality, then what do we see? Everything we see fits into the size-time-diagram, and since the opposition-line in fig. 4 shows that there is a fundamental rule that states, in 3 different proofs, that Reality is infinite / there is more than can even be contemplated / there is more than even non-subjective representation can represent.
Proof number 1 is really weaker than a “proof” – it´s more like evidence. It wouldn´t hold up in a court but it is a way of stating what the other proofs too point towards. Proof 1 is what we saw when presenting figure 4: any dot representing Reality is an incorrect representation because the observer should be part of the object – the thinker should be part of the thought. It denies Cartesian separation and thus is untrue, meaning that anything we draw on the right side of the paper in fig. 4 is incorrect.
We can contemplate anything: we can speculate about what´s smaller than quantum physics, or even what´s smaller than that, etc. into infinity. We are probably wrong, but any contemplation/representation counts as a contemplation – and since we know that, whether right or wrong as our contemplations may be, there is more to Reality than can be contemplated, it follows
that there must be infinitely much to Reality. Since all we know about Reality fits into a size-time-diagram, the minimalist approach is to state that it´s the size-time-diagram that is infinite.
This warrants two new words: the knowable/known size-range and the infinite size-range. The knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range. Since Einstein unified space (size) and time, one cannot be infinite without the other one being the same. Science today doesn´t know whether there was a “before” to the Big Bang or not (whether time was created at the Big Bang), but now we know that the Big Bang is just an event on an infinite time axis. In a future lecture we will talk about how/why the Big Bang recreates (happens over and over).
We talked about universal diagrams (and universal brain-structures) in lecture 1. The size-time-diagram is one major universal diagram. A lot of detail can be added to it because all fields of science fit into it. The infinity-symbols on each axis of the squareical diagram are drawn, based on science, on exo-planets with advanced enough civilizations.
This lecture is about proving that [that of which all is part] (the opposite of separation) i.e. Reality cannot be observed/represented, and that this fact is true irrespective of whether we are observers or dead, and applying this to the size-time-diagram (which gets its infinity-symbols into the squareical diagram).
Proof number 2 (the main proof) is the oppositional approach between Reality and distinction, and it is not subjective because Reality and Reality´s opposite exist even if we were dead. Proof number 3 is about imagining (even though no imagination is it) Reality as a big gray (because energymass is white and spacetime is black) solid, in which we know no observer should be (because observation is separation) – does it have separation i.e. a biggest and a smallest size? No, because such distinctions are not in the opposite of distinction (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 4).
I´ve mentioned universal associations in the brain / exo-planet science, so talking about the size-time-diagram we can add more universal notions to it: why did I draw upwards on the size axis as larger and downward as smaller? Why is the time-axis horizontally drawn instead of vertically? The diagram works even if we would define the vertical axis as time and the horizontal axis as size – so why do we draw size vertically and time horizontally? Is it universal i.e. on other planets or just a human convention like writing from left to right in English-speaking countries and right to left in Arabic-speaking countries?
Evolution has it so that during the history of science telescopes look upward and microscopes look downward. This would be the case on other planets too: they turn their heads upward to see the large and downward (onto a table) to see the small; the opposite can´t be true on any planet. Thus we get the size axis´ standard (of upward being larger) from evolution / the history of science. I use the word “standard” because it comes from evolution rather than being more fundamentally hard-wired into the universe such as the fact that the size-time-diagram is a square with infinity symbols. That the size-time-diagram is a square is not a standard – it is something stronger than that. The fact that we represent time on the vertical axis (and upward as larger) comes from a weaker source: tradition (even though that same tradition is true on all planets; evolution, in this regard, happens the same on all planets that end up with civilizations).
We thus have added standards or weak conventions (derived from history) in addition to having strong diagrams like the size-time-diagram being a square. The distinction between the two is made based on science and is thus made on exo-planets.
Scientists are looking for exo-planets that bear civilizations. If the size-range is infinite – as we´ve proven that it is – then each particular size (like the human range in fig. 5) is infinite too; if the largest is infinitely large then there is, considering the size of a human, an infinite distance in any direction that that human could find itself in. This makes civilizations on other planets a must, not an assumption. The known/knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range, and within the known size-range there is a range in which evolution occurs (between the smallest cells and the biggest organisms), and since we´ve proven that there are infinitely many objects within/of that size-range, then there must be infinitely many locations in which evolution occurs.
In the next lecture we will bind together the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 (distinction and distinction´s opposite; “thinker and thought” opposing Reality) with E=mc
2
(energymasspacetime) and with the infinity of the size-time axes, into a single existential theory which is a rival to “God created earth in 6 days…” The existential theory is a minimalist account for why there is a sizescale in the first place, and why there is something (energymass) rather than nothing (spacetime). It reminds me of this passage: “HITCHENS: In other words, as the great physicist Laplace said when he demonstrated his working model (his orrery, as it’s called) of the solar system to the emperor and Napoleon said, “Well I see there’s no God in this system,” and Laplace said, “Well, Your Majesty, it works without that assumption.””
In this chapter I´ve presented three proofs for that the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in it i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated; we do represent something but however we choose to represent (even representations that can be proposed as thought-experiments if we were dead) we do not represent Reality i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality. Are there any counter-arguments saying that the size-time-diagram is finite? I built this lecture like a court case and I´d like to hear the opposing side. There are no arguments that oppose what I´ve proven so far.
Lecture 3
E=mc
2
E=mc
2
as an equation is only used in relativistic scenarios such as very high speed or very high energy, but since speed is a continuum the equation is true at slower speeds. There is a difference between the equation being applicable (being needed while solving equations) and it being true; it is always true everywhere but it is not needed for equations except in special scenarios.
An example of the equation being true everywhere and always is this: nuclear power-plants turn mass (kilograms) into energy (joule), so that if you input 1 kg of uranium-mass you get out 99.9999 kg of waste products – some of the mass turned into energy which lights our light-bulbs. The atoms that lost some weight (that weight was converted into energy) are atoms just like other kinds of atoms, for example in autumn leaves. If you´d drop leaves into the core of the sun, the sun´s nuclear furnace
would turn mass in the leaves into energy (light). Hence all objects are subject to the E=mc
2
-rule, which states that energy (E) equals mass (m). This warrants the word energymass because they are no longer two distinct things – they are but different manifestations of the same thing. In the brain energymass should be a single idea whilst the concepts “energy and mass” refers to two different forms of a single idea.
Verbs and adjectives tend to refer to energy (shining, running, etc.) while nouns refer to mass (body, tree, etc.) E=mc
2
states that the two (verbs/adjectives and nouns) are together in a single equation. Although only applicable in relativistic scenarios (the role of relativism becomes close to zero in everyday human events, except that our light-bulbs shine because mass turns into energy and the sun can makes leaves into light), E=mc
2
is in a “philosophical” sense true everywhere and always just like Pythagoras’s theorem about triangles remains “philosophically true” even where there are no physical triangles. You wouldn´t say 1=1 is not true in empty space just because there are no objects there to count as “1”.
In addition to energymass being a single concept (and not two distinct ones), spacetime gets added into the mix by the c
2
-part of the equation. c is the speed of light (km/h) and thus a distance (space) over time – spacetime! Energymass (E=m) and spacetime (c
2
) should in the brain be represented by a single idea which we can call energymasspacetime. This harkens back to the previous lectures about Reality, which is a synonym for energymasspacetime. Einstein invented the equation E=mc
2
and thus unified in it energymass with spacetime – and synonyms for energymass are “existence” or “1” while synonyms for spacetime are “non-existence”, “emptiness”, “nothing” and “zero”. There is no more to be considered regarding Reality than energymasspacetime; energymasspacetime involves everything (energymass) and nothing (spacetime) so there is nothing more to be considered/added to Reality – Reality is energymasspacetime; everything is included into Reality once we have defined Reality as energymasspacetime.
The Existential Theory
Each culture seems to have a creation myth (such as genesis) – the creation of the cosmos/world/Reality is something humans have invented hypotheses for during millennia. The stories answer the question “why are we here?”
The true answer is unintuitive. First of all: why is there any particular size? What justifies, say, the size of a molecule? The answer is: the smaller and the larger (the rest of the size-range). Atoms justify a molecule and a molecule exhibits a place for atoms to live in: justifies atoms. Humans need an earth to dwell on (the earth is larger) and humans are made of cells (cells are smaller). Each size bears a relationship upon each other size – the smaller justify the larger and the larger justify the smaller. Since the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all four corners of the square (because of the proof where we had two sides of a paper), the size-range is infinite i.e. the pattern of justification between/amongst sizes continues into the infinitely large and infinitely small. What the ancients called “the first cause” keeps retreating into infinity size-wise the more we contemplate it. The size-range is like a fractal: you can keep zooming in or out infinitely much, and the question “why is there this particular object that I see” has its answer in the relationship between all the sizes: justification. Infinite justification is the reason why there is a size-range at all. But there is more that is needed for a full-fledged existential theory: two more factors play their roles.
Spacetime is emptier than we can imagine/represent it. We (and all representeurs) are energymass and thus are the opposite of spacetime. We could let a piece of empty space represent spacetime, but as soon as we use energymass (such as our brains) to do so, we´ve lost the truly empty nature of spacetime: it is unimaginably empty. Any bundle of neurons, no matter how we wire it, is still the opposite of what they want to represent when they want to present us with spacetime. It is therefore useful to have two concepts for spacetime: (1) our simplest intuition of spacetime and (2) additional defining language explaining that spacetime is emptier than (1). This is how exoplanet civilizations would wire their brains regarding the concept “spacetime” too, just because it’s the most accurate science they can manage.
Just like energy and mass are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon, energymass and spacetime are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon. What does it mean for spacetime to be bundled together with (intertwined with) energymass? Everything exists as/in/because of nothing; 1 exists in 0; energymass and spacetime are together in the E=mc
2
-equation. Where could energymass/existence exist? In nothingness. Just like sizes justify one another, spacetime justifies energymass.
The last question that remains, after we have justification between sizes in an infinite size-range, and that all points in the size-time-diagram are made of energymasspacetime (and energymass is justified by it being in spacetime), is the objective fact that there both is a single Reality (the right side of the paper) and there´s its opposite: distinction (between, say, thinker and thought).
The existential theory builds on three “pillars”/fundamental ideas:
An infinite sizescale,
Energymasspacetime as in the equation E=mc
2
Distinction between distinction itself and distinction´s opposite (see fig. 1, 2, 3):
Between distinction (the left side of the paper, our 2 certain truths: I exist and there is thought) and Reality (the opposite of distinction; one Reality (not plural)) there is a line that demarcates distinction/opposition.
Putting it all into one phrase we might say: “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime with opposition between distinction and Oneness”. At its core it´s three ideas (infinite size-time-diagram, energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
), separation and intertwinedness (the two sides of the paper)). On exoplanets they would state their reason for their own existence using these three ideas too, because taken together they explain all that needs to be explained: first thing that comes to mind is that in the stated existential theory there must be a reproducing shape (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape; a DNA-strand) somewhere. If the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all three corners, then evolution ought to occur somewhere (and be made of energymass in spacetime, while being separate/distinct in a single intertwined Reality).
Most creation-myths have a quite simple (one-pillared) and mundane story: for example genesis just states that God created Reality (that of which all is part) in 6 days and rested on the 7
th
. The scientific rival to all such creation stories is a three-pillared theory – we can´t make it any simpler (we can´t make it one-pillared) and the same would be the case on exoplanets: they too can only break it down to three interconnected ideas/pillars/fundaments, so in thinking this way we share a common intellectual history with exoplanet civilizations advanced enough to figure out this existential theory.
On a test on this subject a question might be: “what are the three pillars of the existential theory?” – the question can´t be “what is the most important pillar in the existential theory?” All pillars are
equally important but constitute as distinct ideas as E=mc
2
is from infinite size, or the separation-intertwinedness-opposition (fig. 3).
This three-pillared creation story – the sum of these three chapters – is built upon logic: it includes certain truths like “I think and I exist” (distinction/separation), its opposite (Reality for which we have three proofs for that it can´t be observed/seen/contemplated i.e. the size-time-diagram is infinite), E=mc
2
which unifies nothing/spacetime with existence/energymass, and the relationship between any two sizes (justification along the infinite size-range). Every one of these ideas relates very closely to Descartes´ certain truth, meaning we can be sure of the ideas themselves – and they together build up a minimalist existential theory which needs no further logic to explain everything there is.
Having an infinite size-range has a predictive quality to it too – it makes a prediction: there ought to be evolution (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar mass) somewhere in the diversity we see throughout even the known size-range.
Though as non-intuitive as the 3-pillar existential theory may be to our evolved brains who want a single conclusion, exoplanet civilizations have the same limits and biases as us: they too are stuck with three pillars in a single theory to make the theory explainable. Science is creating universal (exoplanet) neural pathways in our brains. We should embrace the fact that by being non-intuitive but true, this science wires our brain based on science and thus universally. It is the way (the wiring) that all planets are headed to if they´re into science. It´s a universal world-view. We´re thinking like aliens.
In current scientific debates the religious will argue that faith (in a dogma) is needed to (what they call) “understand” the existence of the universe. If confronted with my theory (these lectures) they´d have to agree that logic makes their God unnecessary as a pillar of creation. In the best case scenario God is simply a synonym for Reality (because Reality is “that of which all is part” and thus God ought to be part of it too, and all we know about Reality is that it is energymass in spacetime and separation in intertwinedness).
Having an explanation – the negative side of it is it being three-pillared and unintuitive, the positive side of it being that it accounts for all of Reality and predicts evolution – further justifies the saying “a God of the gaps” (meaning the more we understand the less we need God). Now all that remains to be understood – again in an unintuitive but identical to exoplanets -way – is how, on an infinite time-line, the Big Bang (denseness) recreates and fades away into sparseness (black holes removing energymass and dark energy creating more space until no galaxies are anymore visible).
Lecture 4
The beginning of the Big Bang
I have a hard time imagining how the universe can reach complete emptiness, but it wouldn´t be the first time the universe´s nature surpasses human intuition. In the history of science stars were observed to not move relative to one another on the night sky, and this was argued to prove that the
size of the universe was much smaller than the now known size – it was argued that the universe would be “unreasonably big” if the stars didn´t seem to move relative to one another as the earth moved because they were so far away.
If only enough time is needed for the universe to become empty, then we get the starting scenario which is most reasonable: we start with emptiness (spacetime). Again, spacetime is emptier than our concept for it because we (and our concepts) are made of energymass.
If you move your hand one meter (from position 1 to position 2), the laws of nature that make your hand make sense were already in place in the space of position 2 before you moved your hand there. It´s not like the universe/spacetime was absurd in location 2 and only started to make sense regarding hands when you moved your hand there. We do not impact the laws of nature in such ways; instead the laws of nature are simultaneously and equally true at all locations and all times. In other words: Pythagoras’s theorem is true even in locations where there are no objects whatsoever, but the theorem is only applicable (to be applied) to triangles. In empty space there are no objects and thus no triangles, but Pythagoras´s theorem is true there anyhow – it does not suddenly become true (switch from being untrue to true) when a triangle is imagined or physically moved there. This applies to E=mc
2
too, which is just as much of a law of nature as Pythagoras´s theorem. E=mc
2
is true everywhere and always, though humans only apply (use) the equation in certain scenarios. Where triangles can be (in spacetime) there is also E=mc
2
. Laws of nature are fundamental and inherent in spacetime and do not come about depending on events (though our application/use of any particular equation is dependent on which event we´re analyzing).
There is distinction between the practical use of equations (to solve problems or understand a phenomenon) and the core nature of spacetime having laws of nature in it. Spacetime is a no-nonsense spacetime – we live in a rational (laws of nature-abiding) universe.
One law being E=mc
2
and another one being “if it is said it must exist” (meaning energymass can´t be mentioned in the laws of nature of spacetime without energymass existing), we get spacetime to summon energymass if the starting-point was complete emptiness. “If energymass is mentioned it must be summoned” (it is mentioned in E=mc
2
) is true because it would be a nonsense universe if it “talks” about energymass without there being any – just infinite space for eternity with laws of nature regarding energymass, but never any energymass appearing/being present. It would be a nonsense universe if energymass it mentioned but never exists. It would be akin to the universe telling lies (having all these rules like E=mc
2
but never applying them to anything), or the universe babbling gibberish (having inapplicable laws of nature).
Thus, E=mc
2
being a core property of spacetime itself and the “no gibberish”-rule applying, energymass must logically be summoned – but how and where? Extremely dense i.e. everywhere, in the smallest spaces, simultaneously. Why? Our starting-point is spacetime, which needs no prior justification because it is the opposite of existence: it doesn´t exist – it is emptier than our neurons make it out to be. In it Einstein´s theory of relativity is true, meaning that there is no center point (or in other words: all points are the center) so there is no center to the Big Bang. Another way of seeing it is that as soon as there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification), E=mc
2
became true in all locations (in the smallest spaces) simultaneously – no point in space was before another in having E=mc
2
be true in it. Spacetime having E=mc
2
as a core property has E=mc
2
be true everywhere
simultaneously; once we have the launching-condition of empty spacetime, through E=mc
2
, energymass is summoned everywhere simultaneously.
This “everywhere” is all things within an event horizon, meaning that things moving away faster than the speed of light (due to dark energy/accelerating cosmic expansion) are not within our event horizon: they are not part of what can be reasonably called “our 3-dimensional space” (from our location). Things are not part of our universe once their speed hits faster than the speed of light – and many locations, within the boundaries of their respective event horizons, will one day have all energymass moving away from them at speeds faster than the speed of light (this is just the observed fact of accelerating cosmic expansion). Such a finite space with no energymass within its event horizon (all energymass moving away faster than the speed of light) would constitute “completely empty space” i.e. our starting-point for the Big Bang (energymass being summoned due to E=mc
2
).
Consider an infinite size-range - it is made of energymasspacetime: if we draw it as the Y-axis on a diagram, there can´t be a region/length in it (such as the knowable size-range) which is completely empty forever. See fig. 6.
Because of the rules E=mc
2
and “if it is mentioned it must be summoned”/”no-nonsense universe” are true throughout the infinite size-range, there can´t be a region with just spacetime (with its laws of nature) because the laws of spacetime mention energymass; spacetime is inherently tied to and intertwined with energymass – existence and non-existence go together (at all sizes). There would be no logical breaking-point (a particular size) where energymasspacetime transitions into being just spacetime for a range of sizes and then transitions back into energymasspacetime; there is no logical breaking-point where the implications of E=mc
2
(the implication being: energymass and spacetime are in the same equation) stop to be true. The transition seen in fig. 6 is impossible (there is no “empty region”). Having an empty region would be akin to zooming into the decimals of pi and seeing no numbers for a specific array of decimals: 3.14159ÄÄÄÄ265359... The Ä´s can´t be there: it´s a continuous sequence of decimal numbers. There is no break/”empty region” in the continuous decimals of pi just as there is no region of the size-range that can be empty of energymass.
In this chapter I´ve written something akin to “
first
there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification unless you consider that the size-axis of the size-time-diagram is infinite),
then
there was E=mc
2
,
then
there was energymass summoned into the smallest spaces available (available = considered to be within an event horizon and empty)”. This harkens back to previous lectures´ talk about “alien logic” (how exoplanets think). To have it make sense to our brains we use the time-distinctions “first, then and then” but the real distinction is not in time but in steps in a sequence of logic. In other words all the mentioned steps happened simultaneously to start the Big Bang: E=mc
2
was true as soon as there was spacetime, and as soon as there was that, energymass appeared as not to make the universe absurd (by it talking gibberish or it having an empty region like in fig. 6).
The end of the Big Bang
Telescopes observe that “space is being born” i.e. that the distances between clumps of energymass (galaxies) are getting larger, and at an accelerating pace too. Not only does the Hubble law state that an object a
million light
-
years
away would be receding from us at 21 km/sec and at double the distance twice the speed, but the law states that that speed (for example 21 km/sec a million light years away) is increasing. This is called accelerating cosmic expansion. It means that from our galaxy, when/if we look into the sky trillions of years in the future, we´d see no trace of any other galaxy let alone the cosmic microwave background (because their speeds have passed the speed of light and thus went beyond the event horizon). Once that object a million light years away from us which today is racing away at 21 km/sec reaches 299792 km/sec (the speed of light), it will pass from being within our event horizon to being outside our sphere of events.
This empties our universe or as Hitchens put it: “nothingness is coming”. Once that nothingness comes we have our starting point where we run through the logic of E=mc
2
–> “if it is mentioned it must exist/be summoned” (in order for the universe not to talk gibberish or the infinite size-range not to have a break in it) –> energymass begins as dense (because of relativity and because E=mc
2
is true everywhere simultaneously/equally).
We observe that nothingness (within event horizons) is coming, and beginning from nothingness there is unintuitive logic that has a predictive quality to it: the Big Bang should start dense. This theory works well with lecture 2´s proofs for that “there is more to Reality than can be represented” (the size-time-diagram is infinite) because size is essentially space, and space and time are intertwined into a single spacetime – hence: if size/space is infinite then time must be infinite too. In other words we have reoccurring Big Bangs interspersed along the time-axis of our size-time-diagram. As soon as a region bound by an event horizon becomes empty we have the universe´s no-nonsense-laws kicking in and E=mc
2
summons energymass (in the smallest sizes that are empty equally/simultaneously).
The sequence of consecutive Big Bangs´ beginnings (emptiness leading to energymass being summoned) and ends (accelerating cosmic expansion speeding things past a point´s event horizon and emptiness being summoned) are as infinite as the time-axis proved to be based on lecture 2´s proofs. Proving (in lecture 2) that spacetime is infinite fits perfectly with the reoccurring Big Bangs (when somethingness becomes emptiness and then emptiness summons somethingness).
There will in other words, between the beginning of a Big Bang and the end of that same Big Bang, be life within the conscious/human size-range (the different locations of that size already being infinitely many, see fig. 4).
Each size along the size-axis is defined as “3-dimensional infinite space” meaning there is infinitely much life with access to universal science (i.e. some version of this lecture-series), and within our region (bound by an event horizon) there is life between the beginning and end of Big Bangs. In addition I have hard to believe that a reproducing shape (and thus evolution) only occurs in only
one
size-range (the, for humans, knowable size-range) in an infinite size-range: there ought to be many sub-size-ranges as part of the infinite size-range where evolution occurs and can reach scientific knowledge. All life mentioned above, if they reach scientific understanding, would concur on the existential theory presented in these lectures (especially lecture 3 – the three pillars/foundations/ideas which together become a minimalist theory for why there is the infinite size-range of energymasspacetime in the first place).
This is not only exoplanet science – it is science between Big Bangs and it is science in regions of the size-axis far away (in size) from our knowable size-range. See fig. 7.
Summary
First we looked at Descartes’ ”thought exists” and ”the self exists”, claimed that it was two valid statements and pointed out the distinction between them. On the other side of the paper we wanted to represent anti-distinction (the opposite of distinction) defined as “that of which all is part” (Reality), and realized that since thinker/thought is stuck on the left side of the paper we can’t represent Reality. This is not only Kant’s “the thing is not the thing itself (the mental map is not the real territory)” but more importantly whatever cannot be taken to represent “that of which all is part” i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality.
All we know about Reality (atoms, humans, galaxies) fit into a size-time-diagram (every object has a size and a time), so the minimalist approach combining the above paragraph with this one is to use the first paragraph to prove that the size-time diagram has infinite
axes. This in turn leads to an existential theory which can be summed up as “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime” – and it has a predictive quality to it: somewhere in such an existence there would be a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape and thus we get reproduction/evolution.
So far we’ve looked at the theory of why size itself exists, why there is something rather than nothing – an existential theory beginning from certain truth and logically building its way up all the way to predicting evolution.
Part 2: Evolution
My explanation of evolution focuses on how important disease and bullying (power) was for evolution.
Power
means that
fish
were
fighting fish breeding more agressive fish = dinosaurs, then
wolfpacks with an alpha male.
But even before and after those eras in evolution the rule of power was in play.
In part one we had an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime (including the intertwinedness-separation-opposition and the time-axis with repeating Big Bangs perpendicular to the size-axis) that predicts a reproducing shape i.e. a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape: reproduction in an infinite size-range.
This infinite size-range predicts reproduction.
Part one was about why there is a sizescale of energymasspacetime: the answers are that the sizescale is infinite and that energymass is in spacetime. It predicts that there should be a reproducing shape: say that it is a triangle which gathers surrounding lines into a similar triangle – then it has reproduced itself. The products of this reproduction obey three rules: directly when there was reproduction three rules came into play, I´ve listed them below as 1, 2, 3 but they are not in order (they came simultaneously):
1:
There is life and death: those who survive survive and those who die are not in the game anymore. “The surviving survive”. It´s so simple – we see it in everyday life today. But everything in evolution will come back to these three rules so we might as well do the banal and bring them up.
So directly when there was a reproducing shape - so in our part of the size-range a DNA-strand which split in the middle and became two DNA-strands – the copy either survived or died.
2: The second rule is that the number of offspring has significance. That is to say: if you get one child or five children or ten children, there is a difference between those numbers – and in evolution it´s a benefit to have more children. One can also have zero children, and that is approximately like being dead.
Some would say that evolution´s meaning (the main task of life) is to make more offspring – that it´s the scientific meaning of life – Nature´s meaning: to reproduce. But I would answer that evolution makes more offspring (that´s reproduction) and making more offspring gives evolutionary benefits, but Nature itself does not care – it does not care about whether we nuke ourselves or not. There is no God that looks upon us and cares. Even reproduction becomes meaningless in the larger perspective. But in evolution it has significance whether one has zero offspring or ten offspring.
Rule number two (number of offspring matters) just as simple as rule number 1 (that there is life and death; that some live and some die).
The third rule that appered... – well all three rules appeared simultaneously directly when there was reproduction in this sizerange. The third rule is that:
3: There is mutation in every generation-shift. Things change. It doesn’t make perfect copies. Your child (if you have one) is not an exact copy of yourself or your wife – it’s a mutation; a change.
These three rules – 1: that there is life and death, the surviving survive. 2: That there are different nuances in the number of offspring. 3: That there is mutation in every generation-shift – these three rules came into play directly when the first reproduction occurred. We will return to these three rules over and over again; they are like laws of nature that like God says shall work on life directly when the first life reproduces itself. These laws of nature didn’t exist before the first life reproduced itself – they were not active then. They became active directly when there was reproduction.
These are abstract laws that we will manufacture, then we have the physical reality of that in a puddle of water a strand of DNA – a cell – made copies/offspring. Then viruses came into the game and injected its own DNA into the ordinary cells, that is to say: hijacked their reproductive system to create virus-offspring. If this would´ve continued the ocean would´ve been filled with only viruses, so there has to be some next step which made it so that our type of life survived. But the viruses added a 4
th
law (one of these abstract laws)
and that is: if you can hijack someone else’s reproductive system to create your own offspring; if you can inject your DNA into somebody else´s cell so that it creates viruses – I call this “power”. We will return to this word when we for example look at dinosaurs (they became bigger because the men killed each other to get the women whom make offspring). This power-principle was one that came after the three first ones.
The first cells reproduced and we had these three rules, then viruses came and injected their DNA and used “power” to produce more viruses. Then we get an immune-system which kills viruses i.e. protects the original organism´s reproductive system from being hijacked by viruses. So the immune-system evolved to take back the reproductive principle (2: the number of offspring matters); for the fact that one should retain the reproductive capability for oneself – so that no virus can take it over. So power has a lot to do with the number of offspring – principle 4 has a lot to do with principle 2.
We have multicellular organisms with immune-systems, we have viruses around them – and it´s an arms-race between that the viruses mutate to overcome the immune-system and the immune-system mutates to overcome the virus. Thus we have an evolutionary pressure on mutating the immune-system as much as possible as fast as possible (because the viruses mutate very quickly), and the best way to do that is to combine genes from two different organisms: a man and a woman. So sex has its beginning in viruses.
If this doesn´t make you feel comfortable contemplate this: the truth outweighs positive-thinking. But does one want to remove whatever spreads joy among people? Those who want to defeat the religious violence in the world (I think religion is the biggest unnecessary cause of hatred in the world) – one cannot defeat that without defeating all religiousness simultaneously. To want to defeat one part of religion but not the rest of it is like voting for the Republicans and Democrats simultaneously – it´s just unreal. Sadly one must remove the good to remove the evil. Meditation still remains and one can get a kind of anxietylessness from some thoughts still but in the big picture there are no reasons that support them anymore – it´s just a brain-trick that one does.
In our evolutionary story we had an immune-system which mutates, wants more mutations – we get two genders. Then men begin to war with each other (because, metaphorically speaking, women can produce offspring once a year while men can produce it every day – we have an imbalance; asymmetry). Why is it always men that start wars? It began with the first fish – we had multicellular life in our story so far, so they became a bit bigger, could swim around – we get fish: it´s easier to find food then and easier to move around. Directly when there were two genders there was one fish which evolved to use its teeth for killing other male fish. The first aggressor of course got the most offspring because there were no other men around. That´s why men go to war: they can produce offspring with so many women while a woman has no benefit from having 1000 men.
There´s a caveat to
this once we get to caveman tribes/wolf-packs where a woman secretly wants many men to provide resources to her child, but at least in the era between fish and dinosaurs the picture was simply based on asymmetric reproductive rates.
So then the male fish grow more aggressive, the child who is the biggest and has the sharpest teeth kills the other male fish, has the most offspring; and in the next generation, again: the child with the most aggression and biggest muscles gets the most offspring – that´s how we get to dinosaurs and T-rex. We had males competing/fighting with each other and that´s why T-rex is so large. That is, again, the power-principle: just like viruses took over the reproductive system from the first cells, T-rex takes away the reproductive system from his rivals by killing them. So this principle number 4 (power) lives on – it has caused/causes so much: it causes the first viruses, it causes T-rex, that fish become aggressive, that we get two genders (by viruses getting power – so we wanted to counter that power by immune-systems i.e. two genders).
These dinosaurs then, just like humans don´t seem to have (sarcasm), any concept of preserving natural resources – so they would´ve eaten up all their trees and not had any food left. But on our planet it seems to have been a meteor-strike which wiped them out, but on exoplanets i.e. overall in this evolutionary series of evolutionary pressures causing various principles (first the three first principles, then the 4
th
principle, immune-systems, two-genderedness, bigger
fish, fights between the fish, dinosaurs). The dinosaurs ate their natural resources and all large life dies - so only small rat-like/squirrel-like life-forms live on.
The trees grow back up – we get monkeys.
Groups tend to, in a fight – if it´s a group against an individual (one against many) – the group tends to win. So we monkeys form groups, fighting together for food against individualists. The individualists lost.
So we got this - or had it from the get-go (just like with the first aggressors) – instinct that makes us want to be highest in the hierarchy and thereby get all the women. Power again. But this time it´s a kind of human power – we saw power when viruses took over the reproductive systems, we saw power when dinosaurs outcompeted their rivals (the men), we see power when a bully goes to the top of the hierarchy, pushes down the other men – and the women want the bully´s resources (he has the most stuff) so they´re attracted to him, so he gets the most offspring – out of his offspring the one that is best at getting power the one that gets most offspring.
The reason for why the brain grew so fast during the past 100 000 years was because we used the brain to plan for how to climb upward in the hierarchy. The reproductive benefits coming from being
cchigh-status in the hierarchy were so great comparing to being low-status that this put great selection-pressure on bigger brains.
Now we basically have caveman living in hierarchical societies, we have kings, aristocrats and slaves – and that is how the world was 5000 years ago. The kings build monumental architecture (pyramids and such). Then someone focused on a random word – so someone focused on what we talked about in part 1: Reality (that of which all is part) and realized one cannot see it (because we should be part of it, or the other two proofs for not being able to see all there is to Reality) and thus they invented the word God: it is one, one cannot see it – we have the dawn of monotheism.
Someone random-focused on the word “soul/self” too and realized one gets less anxiety by making a distinction between the body
one sees in ones imaginations
(the body in one´s plans which tries to get reproduction, survival, resources, power, etc. – the three evolutionary principles that we listed in the beginning of this chapter). One sees a body in front of oneself which tries to make plans to get these things. But it is not that body which is “true” – instead it´s the observer which sees this body
which is “True” – and one cannot see that observer because one is it all the time. This was when they invented the Soul.
So the words God and Soul are legitimate concepts – then the church added a bunch of things like “the soul is immortal” and that “God said this and that to one or another person” (prophets and so on whom lied about a bunch of things). We also have the Golden Rule “do onto others like you would like to have them do onto you” which is a universal thing that they surely have on other planets: we are all humans, we want to be treated as of equal value. So from evolution we went from having cavemen to that someone came up with these
simple
thoughts, and then the church added a bunch of clutter to them. We thus have religions´ beginnings. The ideas of soul (the True self/observer which can´t be seen) and God (that of which all is part is One) are scientific ideas – so to some extent we have the beginnings of science.
Then people invented the telescope and microscope (to discover the sizes in the size-range), and we have a lot of knowledge and upbringing – but this is more intellectual history instead of biological history/evolution – but the intellectual has its foundation in the biological. So now we have gone through the whole story from the first cells to the birth of science.
I try to make this into a theory that is agreed upon by everyone; nowadays there are people who say that God (defined as a metaphysical mind) is needed to understand the theory of evolution – that there are mysteries within evolution. But I see no mysteries in this.
In a future book we will look at consciousness: which kind of emotional repertoire we have. We already said that we want power, we want reproduction, we want resources… But we will look closer at exactly which emotions exist and into which categories one can categorize them – and why they came about (what their evolutionary histories/pressures are). Which exact emotions? The feeling that one wants power, the feeling that one wants to help the flock, the feeling that one wants to plan how to get reproduction… - everything we do / the things that we do. For example I wrote this book because I´m at “war” with the enemies of civilization (“the enemy tribe”), because I want power out of selling this, reproduction out of getting status from having found a new way of describing some things, helping
countries ravaged by religion to become civilized (“helping flock-members”)…
These things drive me to do something intellectual. The emotional repertoire – that is to say: the diagrams about the brain – we can look at in the next book, because now we´ve looked at evolution and evolution created the brain so there is a lot of overlap.
Part 3:
The dawn of religion
No-one knows which kind of God emerged first (in protohuman minds). Was it the contemplation on Part 1 of this book (the oneness of Reality and it’s unrepresentability – focusing on the most all-encompassing concept)? Was there a war between two tribes/groups and to avoid soldiers from deserting one’s own group, the priest/king claimed to get his orders from a super-human invisible entity (which “looks better” than a mere human giving orders). Thinking
“they have a superhuman invisible commander while our group is just mere humans” is demoralizing for the group believing that the enemy has something mystical super-human communicating with their leadership. This kind of god is a tool of war. Or was the first God invented in dog-brain sized brains where a simple cortical circuit (the assotiations: the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) lessened anxiety.
We are after-all craving for the approval of “the hierarchical top”, we fear it... we have all kinds of emotions toward it and it can be imagined to love me, to dictate procedures like prayers to me, etc. It’s such a simple cortical circuit to define the hierarchy’s top as “that of which all is part (Reality)” and say that it loves me. That’s basically three concepts (hierarhical top (Reality) protecting me) – and it alliviates anxiety and gets us through dark nights of the soul. For the simple reason that it feels good to activate that circuit we try to “drug ourselves” by activating it over and over, emphasizing our belief in it, teaching it to everybody. The “hierarchical top (defined as Reality) protects me”-emotion
is one of those good feelings that we can activate at will. When we genetically engineer super-positive feelings to be activated by words, those new animals will propably activate their best emotions like a drug-addict seeks drugs – but they can activate it with words.
The circuitry is simple enough and panic attacks are common enough that I think everyone activates that “...protects/loves me”-circuitry during their life-time. Some choose to call it “belief in God”, others “the hierarchical top (defined as that of which all is part) protects me” and others don’t use any words for it because it is as unnoticable as digestion – something that naturally occurs in certain circumstances and one doesn’t need to be arrogant or proud of having that circuitry because it’s like 3-4 concepts (memorizing 4 concepts whom’s associations make us feel better is not a big feat).
Whichever type of God came first is lesser of a question, though, than: is heaven the same thing? Can “heaven” (and “hell”) be interpreted in a way that it makes sense? Heaven is obviously not a location in the sizerange (we don’t move in the sizerange when we die), so is heaven outside the entire theory (and thus “outside” (though this thing has no outside) that of which all is part)? No. Heaven may be synonomous to being good, and not some location in the diagram.
Maybe heaven is what the future genetically engineered super-happy animal will be in all the time.
Summary
Now that we know the three-pillar existential theory (like infinitely many extraterrestrials in infinite space thinks about it), we’ve got the beginning of evolution with a tiny DNA-strand (first reproduction sparking the three first evolutionary rules (1,2,3) and then the 4
th
(power). At the same time we see a continuum all the way to understand religions.
Since the infinitely many extraterrestrials are like us – they share the same logical evolutionary principles in sets following one another along time in a triangle-shape because increasing complexity is shown along the triangle.
It’s not like I don’t sometimes focus on the sentence “top of the hierarchy (defined as that of which all is part) loves and protects me” (“belief in God” in religious language).
Aliens can also prioritize what to focus on; what to take more off and what one wants to take less of. Aliens “judge” us based on principles like maximum happiness for all (animals, all humans), “do onto others like you’d want them do to yourself”. These are simple universal rules that aliens follow to maximize happiness in an otherwise brutal dog-eat-dog world.
What’s worth noticing
in this whole book
is the existential theory which predicts a tiny DNA-strand is more interesting because it is HOW God created the universe, or if you prefer: you remove God and the existential theory rests firmly on its three pillars.
To me, the core of religion seems to be different emotions to and from the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”). The context of course is hierarchical animals which were preceded by group-dwelling animals (we talked about this in part 2 of this book: evolution).
Having a simplistic association of concepts (merely the 3-4
concepts: hierarchical top – defined as that of which all is part – protects/loves/etc me) gives a relief of anxiety, fear, loneliness etc. Having the more complex picture of the same thing – the context surrounding it – makes the whole thing mundane because we realize that “hierarchical top” refers to our wolf-like nature and “that of which all is part” comes as an infinite sizerange.
As I’ve said I agree with the words Soul (true self vs false self; observer of the body in one’s plans vs. the body in one’s plans) and God (defined as “that of which all is part” and synonymous with Reality). But Heaven is a tricker question – what does “heaven” mean? It is obviously no unknown size-range in the infinite sizerange nor a location in space, nor can it be “outside” [that of which all is part]. I acknowledge that believing in heaven gives the same kind of fear-relief as “the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) protects me”, but like I said: I have trouble not being complex and analyzing “the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) protects me” (putting it in it’s sizescalian and evolutionary context), and with “Heaven” I have even more trouble because the single simplest thought ruins that idea. If I were to try to “believe in Heaven” I’d have to focus so hard that my mind doesn’t wander to even the most closely associated or easily retrieved scientific concept (because that destroys heaven). I do believe in doing good out of solidarity, and that doing good will reak its rewards for the millions of coming generations.
So to me Holy Books tend to contain only the following: different emotions to and from the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) , scientific truths like that Reality cannot be seen, heaven & hell and rituals.
Other than material pleasures like humor, I think we can find
condolence
in that being something in nothing with a bleak evolutionary story is more grim than we feel it to be; the truth hurts but not as much as we can feel. We are worse off than we realize and we should be happy we don’t fully feel our meaningless depressing situation which is made sense of in an unintuitive (and thus gives the feeling of confusion) way
(I’m thinking mainly of the three-PILLAR existential theory).
In Holy Books I also tend to find what I’ll relate to you in an anecdote: I was sitting in the back-seat of a car on vacation in a country which I had fallen in love with, whilst winter was raging in my home country. The driver of the car asked if I wanted a hazelnut croissant. I thought what was more important of a topic was for me to whine about that I don’t ever want to leave this country, I want my vacation to last longer, I don’t want to go back to the darkness and snow. So I said “I don’t want to go back to Sweden 🙁 !!” and the driver asked “what does this have to do with the hazelnut croissant?”. I put my answer in a joke: “the connection between the two topics is very deep and significant, but it’s hard to explain: it’s mysterious – and that’s religion.” I tend to find, to say the least, unintuitive associations between concepts in holy books (not meant as jokes).
About Heaven again:
So true justice is impossibly unattainable, which means that this world is inherently unjust?
Yes it's unjust and that seems quite obvious. The other day I heard two people talking: "life can't be this shitty without there being a heaven - there must be a heaven to make life worthwhile", I didn't say anything because their illusion makes them happy but I was thinking: "I am SURE there is no heaven and I can PROVE it scientifically. I even know that the true nature of the situation is worse than we feel it to be (intellectually only can we realize exactly how bleak human life is (and my book is to a large extent so meaninglessness-giving and depressing that one can make jokes out of it)). The only reason to keep living is out of solidarity and because science can create an animal which is 100% happy throughout its lifetime (maybe 100 years from now)."
So heaven was just the divine carrot at the end of the rainbow which acts as a counterweight to the stick that is life?
Do I believe in God, Heaven, The Day of Judgement, etc? As much as I believe that “the top of the hierarchy (defined as “that of which all is part”) protects me” – I use it sometimes. But then if I analyze it, it kindof breaks down: into a donkey with a carrot regarding heaven:
I’m trying to translate all religious concepts (and did well with God and Soul) into scientific language. I can’t do Heaven as a scientific translation except by using this donkey picture – I’m sorry!
The only hope I have of there being a heaven for anyone in the future is that humanity genetically engineers a super-happy animal.
I did well by translating
Soul into scientific language (the body with the plans and the see’er of the body in the plans) and I did well with God (that of which all is part) because it’s one, it can’t be seen,
it’s the cause of everything...
But with Heaven I really can’t do any better than this donkey-picture, and I’m sad about it. I still use the concept Heaven but in the religious way, I don’t use it in the scientific way because it just gets me sad (but it’s funny at the same time).
I “believe in Heaven” in the religious way, but I don’t “believe in Heaven” in the scientific way. Humans are capable of such cognitive dissonance.
I think "heaven" is only valid if someone is watching us (to determine whether we sin or not; go to heaven or hell), and needing that surveilance is the same as being a flock-animal. Heaven thus comes from us needing a flock (being used to someone watching us).
Meta-commentary on this book
If the purpose of this book is to unify across religious-differences and build more agreement and thus friendship/trust in the world, then the overall structure of having three parts should remain the same no matter how the course/book is presented:
first
the existential theory because it predicts that there ought to be a tiny DNA-strand somewhere,
then
evolution (because it’s a continuation off of the existential theory/part 1),
then
other thoughts like the circuitry related to religion.
If we focus on ways to teach part 1 of this book (the existential theory), one has three options:
begin from Descartes’ certain truth (I think and I am) and make small logical steps all the way up to anti-distinction (that of which all is part) and how distinction vs. anti-distinction –opposition proves that the sizerange is infinite.
begin from Nothingness (spacetime) which is there “a priori” (needs no prior justification) and is emptier than we can imagine it as. Then state that that spacetime is non-absurd/non-bizarre i.e. that for example the case is not that at one moment 1+1=2, then 1+1=5, then 1+1=241, then 1+1=2 again. 1+1=2 is a law of nature inherent in spacetime, and so is Pythagoras’ theorems about triangles (a triangle is not a sphere because the universe is non-absurd). The laws of nature state
d
so far already hint at Existence (energymass) but E=mc
2
is a law of nature that certainly explicitly requires Energymass. Where is Energymass first summoned? In the smallest spaces, thus we get a dense Big Bang throughout the entire sizerange.
begin with stating the three pillars of the existential theory: (1) an infinite sizerange (2) of energymasspacetime (3) in intertwinedness-separation-opposition.
Including all three ways to begin should convince everyone of that this world-view is valid.
The way I go about teaching this course is universal, and the latest thing I’ve noticed about my course is that the number 3 repeats in many places: there are three ways to start the course (Certain Truth, Nothingness, 3 Pillars of the Existential Theory), the existential theory has 3 pillars, the first evolutionary rules (before power/viruses emerge) are 3.
Extraterrestrials would notice the number 3 popping up all the time too.
The diagram
This is the logotype infinitely many extraterrestrials, basing it off of science, paint on their T-shirts, caps and other merchendize. We’ve already talked about the infinite sizerange and the evolutionary theory (the square and the triangle), but the additional third part aliens would add to the diagram is their diagrams of the brain: the different categories (large or small, 3 of them) of hard-wired circuits: homeostatic circuits, social/external-circuits and circuitry that gets activated when the two other categories of circuits aren’t active (these are gathering resources, curiosity (expanding one’s world-view), planning how to get power, planning how to get reproduction).
In our planning-system we have serotonine (the red line) and dopamine (the blue line).
The number 3 is a magic number because
there are 3 ways to begin this universal course (nothingness, certain truth or 3 pillars of the existential theory), there are 3 pillars to the existential theory, there are 3 first evolutionary principles and there are 3 categories of evolved brain circuits (social/external, homeostatic and cortex-idle).
3 is the
most
universal digit.
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen, Sweden
War and Boredom
– Religious wars continue because this book isn’t known enough, and it is not known because it is “boring” i.e. causes feelings of meaninglessness, depression etc.
Author
yonis
Posted on
31/12/2016
21/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on War and Boredom
2 Nobel Prizes
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/Untitled-Project2.mp4
Author
yonis
Posted on
12/12/2016
14/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on 2 Nobel Prizes
V 2-4
V2-4
Author
yonis
Posted on
08/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on V 2-4
Existential theory (2)
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/We-are-evolution-2.mp4
Author
yonis
Posted on
07/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Existential theory (2)
Summary in video (10 min)
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/Untitled.mp4
Author
yonis
Posted on
05/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Summary in video (10 min)
Latest version of my book
Warrior of Boredom
The title of this book refers to that it is hard to get through this book. The reason why this new science (that I present in this book) hasn’t been discovered until I did is because it’s depressing, anxiety-giving and BORING. But the question is: does everyone agree on it? If they do, that changes the Israel-Palestine-conflict where the parties of God are vetoing “the holy land”. Religion is the biggest cause for hate in the world, as Hitchens said. My book defeats religion – it’s a minimalist theory that works completely – a theory of Everything: existence (why there is size itself), evolution – even thoughts on the methodology for doing politics.
Philosophy = honor,
but anxiety/depression and boredom. Religion = no honor,
but less anxiety/depression and less boredom.
The big picture, accounting of everything, conflicts with certain positive-thinking brain-tricks and with our bias toward ignoring some negative/depressing aspects of nature.
The first part of this book will be a more detailed discourse about the following paragraph:
Descartes proved that there is distinction (between thinker and thought) - what's the opposite of distinction: "that of which all is part" (Reality). Since we are stuck in Descarte's thinker and thought-realm we can't see Reality, nor can "whatever" not represent it, meaning that there's more to it than can be contemplated/represented. Since all objects we know of fit in a size-time-diagram, this argument must mean that there is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram - and this in turn leads us to an existential theory (a theory about why there is size in the first place).
I realize that’s too fast of a paragraph to convince everyone and thus I want to convince the readers of this book to be warrios or boredom and see all my arguments.
Lecture 1
Descartes
One of the aims of this course is to get EVERYONE to agree so that they have the same associations between scientific concepts.
There is no other proper way to accomplish this goal than by starting with certain truth, which was found by Descartes in the 1600s. He lived in a time where they believed in demons, Gods etc. so he postulated a thought experiment where he assumed an almighty demon was fooling him in everything he could be fooled in: what would remain as certain truth – what could he not be fooled in?
If he was being fooled, where would still be a “he” (or self) there to be fooled, meaning that the self certainly exists. A self is necessary for a self to be fooled.
Descartes had thus concluded his own existence.
Being fooled is thinking – thus thought exists. “There is thought” Descartes concluded as certain truth. The word “fooling” represents a thought-process.
Descartes found the starting-position for any inquiry about truth: we can know certainly that thinker and thought exists.
Distinction exists (a logical conclusion from the above)
Looking at what we´ve found as certain truth so far “from above” (meta), we can take the next logical step – adding a third factoid to our 2-statement (A and B above) starting position: that there is distinction (
between
thinker and thought). The fact that thinker and thought are two separate entities concluded to be certain truth
s
through two
different
logical pathway
s
lets us conclude that “distinction exists”
. There are what Chinese philosophy calls “the ten thousand things” (referring to the world) – there are at least two (three if we include “distinction” as th
e third thing) certain entities, and empirically we know there are “ten thousand things” (not taking the number 10 000 literally but just referring to multiplicity).
First universal diagram
We can draw the thinker and thought and distinction between them as two dots with a line between them on a piece of paper (fig. 1).
Now we have something all religions agree on
– we´ve drawn up ideas and associations between them. Everyone ought to have the same associations (explanatory thoughts) between the concepts we´ve looked at so far.
We have, if you will – in figure 1 – a universal diagram.
Reality
We have the capability to conglomerate many separate entities under the rubric of a single category. If we use this capability to collect the “ten thousand things” (distinct entities) we´ve found so far into a single thing, we ought to give that thing a word/name. Its definition can be “that of which all is part” and “the opposite of separation/distinction”. I will use the word Reality to refer to this all-encompassing thing.
In lecture 2 I will present three proofs for that “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, but for now we can draw (adding to figure 1) a dot with a cross over it – the cross to symbolize that the dot itself is a false representation of Reality because we (the observer/self/thinker) should be part of that dot. See fig 2.
Thinking about what we´ve got so far
Thinking about what we´ve got so far (fig. 2) it’s a bundle of associations which make universal inter-religious (all religions agree on it) knowledge with both words and pictures.
In the next lecture I present why the line in fig 2 (see fig 3) represents the opposition/antagonism/disagreement/contraposition/divergence/variance between the two sides of the paper; between “thinker and thought” on one side of the paper and “Reality (that of which all is part; the opposite of separation)” on the other side of the paper.
Worth noting now is that the left side of the paper represents separation/distinction whilst the right side of the paper represents the opposite of separation/distinction – both are legitimate ideas: thinker and thought – and distinction – is certain truth based on Descartes and we all know which idea we refer to when talking about the all-encompassing [that of which all is part] Reality.
In the next lecture we will talk about why the line in fig. 3 makes it so that we can´t see Reality – I will present three proofs like in a crime case, and we will talk about what we can see if we can´t see Reality.
Making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far
1
See fig. 1 again: it´s our starting-point and the thinking that occurs in it happens in Descartes “realm of mind”; it is the mind´s realm (the left side of the paper) in which the thinking happens, and one thing we talk about is Reality on the right side of the paper in fig 3. Since the line in fig. 3 represents both the legitimacy of the ideas on both sides of the paper, and simultaneously the opposition between separation/distinction (on the left side of the paper) and [the opposite of separation/distinction] on the right side of the paper. That opposition is important and I will show its significance in lecture 2.
2
Starting from Descartes realm (of if you will: assuming that all we know is what we know for certain), we have the capability to state that there is a single Reality of which all is part – so even though we see separation we must grant that that separation (all entities) fits into a category we call Reality. There is a unifying whole even though the human mind (Descartes realm) is limited in its ways when it tries to contemplate Reality.
Not only is there the map-territory distinction (which will be presented as one out of three proofs in lecture 2), but there is also a more fundamental opposition between distinction and its opposite (there is a more fundamental opposition between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3). Not only are we stuck in the map-territory-distinction-realm but we also can conclude that no representation (regardless of the mind) is equal to Reality (on a more fundamental level than the map-territory-problem).
Representation is done in the brain using neurons and in a computer using electrons, but there is no reason why the most distant atom or quark couldn´t be proposed to be a symbol for [that of which all is part] – and even in that brainless scenario we will see in lecture 2 that “that of which all is part cannot be represented”. The map-territory-distinction is just proof/evidence number two in lecture 2 (for that we cannot see Reality and thus, since we do see/represent something, there must be more to Reality than can be represented i.e. the size-time-diagram (presented in lecture
2) is infinite along both axes.
Proof 3 in lecture 2 removes the brain from the equation and still proves that there is more to Reality than can be seen/represented/symbolized (using any means/any method – even without a brain), and since some representation is obviously (since we know that there are minds) possible, there must be more than can be represented/contemplated i.e. the size-axis is infinite and the time-axis is infinite in that two-axis diagram.
3
Both sides of the paper in fig. 3 are legitimate ideas. But still they are opposites (separation on one side and the opposite of separation on the other side). How can two derived-from-logic sides of the paper be opposites but still both be legitimate?
Usually opposition – like between Democrats and Republicans – means that one is right and the other is wrong; they can´t both simultaneously be right: you can´t meaningfully vote for both parties at the same time.
The case is different between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3: both sides are right and they are opposites.
There is a single Reality and there is multiplicity in distinction.
What does this mean? That there is more to the size-time-diagram than anything could represent – any representation fails (you can think of some
examples/suggestions for how to represent [that of which all is part]/[the opposite of separation]) – and thus the axes on the size-time-diagram are infinite. This is a hither to unpresented fact in science – it is new science: some of the best scientists ignorantly believe that the size-range is limited/finite.
4
We have quite a few associations and symbols in fig. 3 which must be agreed upon, and here I´m using the word “must” in the sense that “by the rules of logic X must be true”. Other civilizations throughout the infinitely many galaxies there are use the exact same ideas (but in a different language) and have the same associations between them (that there are infinitely many galaxies is derived from that the size-axis in the size-time-diagram is infinite). There is distinction as the third truth to be added to Descartes two fundamental truths (thinker and thought exist), and all that is opposed to (on the other side of the paper in fig. 3) to the all-encompassing Reality which is defined using at least two definitions: that of which all is part and the opposite of separation.
I´m tri-lingual but I write the same ideas and associate them in the same ways no matter which language I write in – its universal science beginning from certain truth. On other planets that have civilizations my writings in this book ought to match up quite near to the writings creating the same lecture series based on universal science that I´m creating
– “alien”/exo-planet
lecture series proceed, beginning from certain fact, through logical steps as I do.
5
[Thinker and thought] (certain truth) and thus distinction/separation are associated through negation/opposition to the right side of the paper in figure 3: Reality. The left side is not the right side just like separation is not its opposites. Both being legitimate ideas, though, connects them in the way that thinker and thought (and all other distinct entities) are in the category Reality.
Even though Reality and distinction are opposites, distinction dwells in (as a sub-entity within the category) Reality.
The associations between the left and right sides of the paper in figure 3 are both united through the notion “opposition” and through the notion that distinction is inherent in Reality (Reality being the opposite of distinction
because we have all-encompassing and its opposite: composite parts).
6
It is certainly true that all is part of a single Reality; but it is equally true that in every observation there is an observer and hence distinction (between thinker and thought). We see separate entities is as true as that the self that we are is not in front of us – but everything we see (thought/object) is in front of us.
That is evidence 1 in lecture 2 (not a proof, but a mere suggestion/evidence that [that of which all is part cannot be observed] and thus there is more to Reality than our concept of [infinitely much].
All we know about Reality has two properties: a size and a time. Size and time are two axes on a diagram, and thus all we know fits into the size-time-diagram (every object or location in space has a size and time).
There is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram because all suggested representors for Reality fail
(for three reasons taken up in lecture 2).
7
All
bundles of associations in this chapter “making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far”
are written in order to create some universal brain structures (universal because
science is the same everywhere (on all exo-planets), and their brains make the same associations too eventually). It´s not some random bundle of associations nor did I randomly present random ideas.
I assume the brain structure created by understanding this book is a replica of something derived from science; a replica of brain structures on the infinitely many other civilization-bearing planets. It´s a universal “ideology”, if you will.
Everyone has a possibility of sharing it in agreement – and future lectures will add a whole lot of complexity to it; agreement tends to build friendship so study is a way of bringing more peace to the world.
Once the full world-view is presented throughout this book, it´s a way of pacifying the world.
8
We have two brain-halves: one linguistic and one visual. So far we´ve both drawn pictorial representations and connected words – both brain-halves have been working. The connections across corpus collosum (which sits between the brain-halves and connects them) that connect a linguistic narrative/explanation to the pictorial representations are one day found in all humans thanks to science. Our brains are becoming more as science has a propensity to make them be.
This course itself, since it begins with certain truths and builds upon it logically, is a universal course (to the best of my ability).
The brain cells that constitute the negation (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 3) or opposition are not the same kind of cells (they are inhibitory neurons) that connect thinker with though as both being certain truths (but the thinker is not the thought and thus has inhibitory cells making that brain-structure work too
(what you are is not in front of you;
what you are is not visible).
Since both Reality and [what you are]/self/observer/thinker are invisible the brain might erroneously and spontaneously try to associate them, so a brain-structure is needed to inhibit that association (and replace it with a more complex explanation). That spontaneous but erroneous association is something all thinking animals throughout the universe evolved to do, and the inhibition of it through culture/civilizing/science is universally available within complex enough civilizations throughout the universe.
As you can see the brain structures responsible for doing this thing are quite complex, but also universal and thus accessible to all humans, and predictably will someday be in all humans (fostering agreement, thus friendship, thus peace).
Lecture 2
Perceive, apprehend, notice are synonyms for our representing ability, but I will use the word “see” or “observe” to refer to all of these. The goal of this lecture is to prove the statement “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, Reality being defined as “that of which all is part”. In other words: we cannot see Reality, and thus there is more to Reality than even can be contemplated (i.e. infinitely much).
I will build this lecture like a criminal court case: I will present three proofs for that we cannot see Reality i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated i.e. (since we can contemplate anything (right or wrong)) Reality is infinite.
Since anything/everything we know about Reality has some size and time, it fits into a size-time-diagram. See fig. 4.
In fig. 4 size is represented along the vertical axis and time along the horizontal axis. The objects humans see in everyday life (from the horizon to a single cell as one “pixel” in our visual field) are marked in “the human range”.
See fig 5.
In fig. 5 I´ve drawn the same diagram as in fig. 4 but this time with infinity-symbols in each corner of the squareical size-time-diagram. Two infinite axes become a square.
Proof number 3 in our “court case” for proving that the size-time-diagram (Reality) is infinite has us imagine the unobservable separatenessless Reality and ask whether there is a maximum or minimum size to/in it (a maximum/minimum being separateness while we are talking about the opposite of separation). This is again to confirm that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes.
The line we drew in fig. 4 was for separating the two sides of the paper; opposing “thinker and thought” (distinction) with its opposite: one all-encompassing non-distinction Reality. That opposition-line is what this lecture is about since it proves that the two sides of the paper are
separate/opposing realms and we are stuck in one realm as long as we are observers (because observation is separation/distinction (thinker and thought)).
Proving that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes is new science because it poses the question: what happened before the Big Bang (14 billion years ago), and it presents one pillar of our existential theory: that each size is the reason for each next and previous size, and the size axis is infinite, meaning the “beginning” of the relationship between sizes keeps retreating into infinity the more we contemplate the range of the size axis.
When I presented fig. 4 for the first time I drew a cross over the dot symbolizing Reality for the plain reason that we (as observers) should be part of that dot, and by the very nature of us being separate (and the dot representing the opposite of separation) we should draw a cross over it symbolizing that we cannot see it.
The main proof though is that even if all observers were dead there´d still be, inherent and fundamental in nature, the opposition between distinction and distinction´s opposite (the two sides of the paper in fig. 4). The line is an opposition-line and it is more fundamental than being dependent on humans/observers – it refers to all representation whether it’s using/including humans or not. I am, in other words, not talking about the map-territory distinction (which symbolizes that humans have mental maps and not the real world per se; like Kant said: we have “the thing” and not “the thing itself”). Proof 2 – the opposition-line between the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 – is not subjective: it is true that we live with the map-territory-distinction but even if I died there´d still be separate things (chairs separate from cups), that kind of separation is not dependent on me/observers. Simultaneously the flipside of the coin (the other side of the paper in fig. 4) is true too: all is one single Reality (the opposite of separation). Proof 2, in other words, should not be interpreted as signifying the map-territory distinction (human subjectivity) but instead a fundamental opposition in the universe.
If we do not see Reality, then what do we see? Everything we see fits into the size-time-diagram, and since the opposition-line in fig. 4 shows that there is a fundamental rule that states, in 3 different proofs, that Reality is infinite / there is more than can even be contemplated / there is more than even non-subjective representation can represent.
Proof number 1 is really weaker than a “proof” – it´s more like evidence. It wouldn´t hold up in a court but it is a way of stating what the other proofs too point towards. Proof 1 is what we saw when presenting figure 4: any dot representing Reality is an incorrect representation because the observer should be part of the object – the thinker should be part of the thought. It denies Cartesian separation and thus is untrue, meaning that anything we draw on the right side of the paper in fig. 4 is incorrect.
We can contemplate anything: we can speculate about what´s smaller than quantum physics, or even what´s smaller than that, etc. into infinity. We are probably wrong, but any contemplation/representation counts as a contemplation – and since we know that, whether right or wrong as our contemplations may be, there is more to Reality than can be contemplated, it follows that there must be infinitely much to Reality. Since all we know about Reality fits into a size-time-diagram, the minimalist approach is to state that it´s the size-time-diagram that is infinite.
This warrants two new words: the knowable/known size-range and the infinite size-range. The knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range. Since Einstein unified space (size) and time, one cannot be infinite without the other one being the same. Science today doesn´t know whether there was a “before” to the Big Bang or not (whether time was created at the Big Bang), but now we know that the Big Bang is just an event on an infinite time axis. In a future lecture we will talk about how/why the Big Bang recreates (happens over and over).
We talked about universal diagrams (and universal brain-structures) in lecture 1. The size-time-diagram is one major universal diagram. A lot of detail can be added to it because all fields of science fit into it. The infinity-symbols on each axis of the squareical diagram are drawn, based on science, on exo-planets with advanced enough civilizations.
This lecture is about proving that [that of which all is part] (the opposite of separation) i.e. Reality cannot be observed/represented, and that this fact is true irrespective of whether we are observers or dead, and applying this to the size-time-diagram (which gets its infinity-symbols into the squareical diagram).
Proof number 2 (the main proof) is the oppositional approach between Reality and distinction, and it is not subjective because Reality and Reality´s opposite exist even if we were dead. Proof number 3 is about imagining (even though no imagination is it) Reality as a big gray (because energymass is white and spacetime is black) solid, in which we know no observer should be (because observation is separation) – does it have separation i.e. a biggest and a smallest size? No, because such distinctions are not in the opposite of distinction (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 4).
I´ve mentioned universal associations in the brain / exo-planet science, so talking about the size-time-diagram we can add more universal notions to it: why did I draw upwards on the size axis as larger and downward as smaller? Why is the time-axis horizontally drawn instead of vertically? The diagram works even if we would define the vertical axis as time and the horizontal axis as size – so why do we draw size vertically and time horizontally? Is it universal i.e. on other planets or just a human convention like writing from left to right in English-speaking countries and right to left in Arabic-speaking countries?
Evolution has it so that during the history of science telescopes look upward and microscopes look downward. This would be the case on other planets too: they turn their heads upward to see the large and downward (onto a table) to see the small; the opposite can´t be true on any planet. Thus we get the size axis´ standard (of upward being larger) from evolution / the history of science. I use the word “standard” because it comes from evolution rather than being more fundamentally hard-wired into the universe such as the fact that the size-time-diagram is a square with infinity symbols. That the size-time-diagram is a square is not a standard – it is something stronger than that. The fact that we represent time on the vertical axis (and upward as larger) comes from a weaker source: tradition (even though that same tradition is true on all planets; evolution, in this regard, happens the same on all planets that end up with civilizations).
We thus have added standards or weak conventions (derived from history) in addition to having strong diagrams like the size-time-diagram being a square. The distinction between the two is made based on science and is thus made on exo-planets.
Scientists are looking for exo-planets that bear civilizations. If the size-range is infinite – as we´ve proven that it is – then each particular size (like the human range in fig. 5) is infinite too; if the largest is infinitely large then there is, considering the size of a human, an infinite distance in any direction that that human could find itself in. This makes civilizations on other planets a must, not an assumption. The known/knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range, and within the known size-range there is a range in which evolution occurs (between the smallest cells and the biggest organisms), and since we´ve proven that there are infinitely many objects within/of that size-range, then there must be infinitely many locations in which evolution occurs.
In the next lecture we will bind together the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 (distinction and distinction´s opposite; “thinker and thought” opposing Reality) with E=mc
2
(energymasspacetime) and with the infinity of the size-time axes, into a single existential theory which is a rival to “God created earth in 6 days…” The existential theory is a minimalist account for why there is a sizescale in the first place, and why there is something (energymass) rather than nothing (spacetime). It reminds me of this passage: “HITCHENS: In other words, as the great physicist Laplace said when he demonstrated his working model (his orrery, as it’s called) of the solar system to the emperor and Napoleon said, “Well I see there’s no God in this system,” and Laplace said, “Well, Your Majesty, it works without that assumption.””
In this chapter I´ve presented three proofs for that the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in it i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated; we do represent something but however we choose to represent (even representations that can be proposed as thought-experiments if we were dead) we do not represent Reality i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality. Are there any counter-arguments saying that the size-time-diagram is finite? I built this lecture like a court case and I´d like to hear the opposing side. There are no arguments that oppose what I´ve proven so far.
Lecture 3
E=mc
2
E=mc
2
as an equation is only used in relativistic scenarios such as very high speed or very high energy, but since speed is a continuum the equation is true at slower speeds. There is a difference between the equation being applicable (being needed while solving equations) and it being true; it is always true everywhere but it is not needed for equations except in special scenarios.
An example of the equation being true everywhere and always is this: nuclear power-plants turn mass (kilograms) into energy (joule), so that if you input 1 kg of uranium-mass you get out 99.9999 kg of waste products – some of the mass turned into energy which lights our light-bulbs. The atoms that lost some weight (that weight was converted into energy) are atoms just like other kinds of atoms, for example in autumn leaves. If you´d drop leaves into the core of the sun, the sun´s nuclear furnace would turn mass in the leaves into energy (light). Hence all objects are subject to the E=mc
2
-rule, which states that energy (E) equals mass (m). This warrants the word energymass because they are no longer two distinct things – they are but different manifestations of the same thing. In the brain
energymass should be a single idea whilst the concepts “energy and mass” refers to two different forms of a single idea.
Verbs and adjectives tend to refer to energy (shining, running, etc.) while nouns refer to mass (body, tree, etc.) E=mc
2
states that the two (verbs/adjectives and nouns) are together in a single equation. Although only applicable in relativistic scenarios (the role of relativism becomes close to zero in everyday human events, except that our light-bulbs shine because mass turns into energy and the sun can makes leaves into light), E=mc
2
is in a “philosophical” sense true everywhere and always just like Pythagoras’s theorem about triangles remains “philosophically true” even where there are no physical triangles. You wouldn´t say 1=1 is not true in empty space just because there are no objects there to count as “1”.
In addition to energymass being a single concept (and not two distinct ones), spacetime gets added into the mix by the c
2
-part of the equation. c is the speed of light (km/h) and thus a distance (space) over time – spacetime! Energymass (E=m) and spacetime (c
2
) should in the brain be represented by a single idea which we can call energymasspacetime. This harkens back to the previous lectures about Reality, which is a synonym for energymasspacetime. Einstein invented the equation E=mc
2
and thus unified in it energymass with spacetime – and synonyms for energymass are “existence” or “1” while synonyms for spacetime are “non-existence”, “emptiness”, “nothing” and “zero”. There is no more to be considered regarding Reality than energymasspacetime; energymasspacetime involves everything (energymass) and nothing (spacetime) so there is nothing more to be considered/added to Reality – Reality is energymasspacetime; everything is included into Reality once we have defined Reality as energymasspacetime.
The Existential Theory
Each culture seems to have a creation myth (such as genesis) – the creation of the cosmos/world/Reality is something humans have invented hypotheses for during millennia. The stories answer the question “why are we here?”
The true answer is unintuitive. First of all: why is there any particular size? What justifies, say, the size of a molecule? The answer is: the smaller and the larger (the rest of the size-range). Atoms justify a molecule and a molecule exhibits a place for atoms to live in: justifies atoms. Humans need an earth to dwell on (the earth is larger) and humans are made of cells (cells are smaller). Each size bears a relationship upon each other size – the smaller justify the larger and the larger justify the smaller. Since the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all four corners of the square (because of the proof where we had two sides of a paper), the size-range is infinite i.e. the pattern of justification between/amongst sizes continues into the infinitely large and infinitely small. What the ancients called “the first cause” keeps retreating into infinity size-wise the more we contemplate it. The size-range is like a fractal: you can keep zooming in or out infinitely much, and the question “why is there this particular object that I see” has its answer in the relationship between all the sizes: justification. Infinite justification is the reason why there is a size-range at all. But there is more that is needed for a full-fledged existential theory: two more factors play their roles.
Spacetime is emptier than we can imagine/represent it. We (and all representeurs) are energymass and thus are the opposite of spacetime. We could let a piece of empty space represent spacetime, but as soon as we use energymass (such as our brains) to do so, we´ve lost the truly empty nature of
spacetime: it is unimaginably empty. Any bundle of neurons, no matter how we wire it, is still the opposite of what they want to represent when they want to present us with spacetime. It is therefore useful to have two concepts for spacetime: (1) our simplest intuition of spacetime and (2) additional defining language explaining that spacetime is emptier than (1). This is how exoplanet civilizations would wire their brains regarding the concept “spacetime” too, just because it’s the most accurate science they can manage.
Just like energy and mass are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon, energymass and spacetime are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon. What does it mean for spacetime to be bundled together with (intertwined with) energymass? Everything exists as/in/because of nothing; 1 exists in 0; energymass and spacetime are together in the E=mc
2
-equation. Where could energymass/existence exist? In nothingness. Just like sizes justify one another, spacetime justifies energymass.
The last question that remains, after we have justification between sizes in an infinite size-range, and that all points in the size-time-diagram are made of energymasspacetime (and energymass is justified by it being in spacetime), is the objective fact that there both is a single Reality (the right side of the paper) and there´s its opposite: distinction (between, say, thinker and thought).
The existential theory builds on three “pillars”/fundamental ideas:
An infinite sizescale,
Energymasspacetime as in the equation E=mc
2
Distinction between distinction itself and distinction´s opposite (see fig. 1, 2, 3):
Between distinction (the left side of the paper, our 2 certain truths: I exist and there is thought) and Reality (the opposite of distinction; one Reality (not plural)) there is a line that demarcates distinction/opposition.
Putting it all into one phrase we might say: “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime with opposition between distinction and Oneness”. At its core it´s three ideas (infinite size-time-diagram, energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
), separation and intertwinedness (the two sides of the paper)). On exoplanets they would state their reason for their own existence using these three ideas too, because taken together they explain all that needs to be explained: first thing that comes to mind is that in the stated existential theory there must be a reproducing shape (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape; a DNA-strand) somewhere. If the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all three corners, then evolution ought to occur somewhere (and be made of energymass in spacetime, while being separate/distinct in a single intertwined Reality).
Most creation-myths have a quite simple (one-pillared) and mundane story: for example genesis just states that God created Reality (that of which all is part) in 6 days and rested on the 7
th
. The scientific rival to all such creation stories is a three-pillared theory – we can´t make it any simpler (we can´t make it one-pillared) and the same would be the case on exoplanets: they too can only break it down to three interconnected ideas/pillars/fundaments, so in thinking this way we share a common intellectual history with exoplanet civilizations advanced enough to figure out this existential theory.
On a test on this subject a question might be: “what are the three pillars of the existential theory?” – the question can´t be “what is the most important pillar in the existential theory?” All pillars are equally important but constitute as distinct ideas as E=mc
2
is from infinite size, or the separation-intertwinedness-opposition (fig. 3).
This three-pillared creation story – the sum of these three chapters – is built upon logic: it includes certain truths like “I think and I exist” (distinction/separation), its opposite (Reality for which we have three proofs for that it can´t be observed/seen/contemplated i.e. the size-time-diagram is infinite), E=mc
2
which unifies nothing/spacetime with existence/energymass, and the relationship between any two sizes (justification along the infinite size-range). Every one of these ideas relates very closely to Descartes´ certain truth, meaning we can be sure of the ideas themselves – and they together build up a minimalist existential theory which needs no further logic to explain everything there is.
Having an infinite size-range has a predictive quality to it too – it makes a prediction: there ought to be evolution (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar mass) somewhere in the diversity we see throughout even the known size-range.
Though as non-intuitive as the 3-pillar existential theory may be to our evolved brains who want a single conclusion, exoplanet civilizations have the same limits and biases as us: they too are stuck with three pillars in a single theory to make the theory explainable. Science is creating universal (exoplanet) neural pathways in our brains. We should embrace the fact that by being non-intuitive but true, this science wires our brain based on science and thus universally. It is the way (the wiring) that all planets are headed to if they´re into science. It´s a universal world-view. We´re thinking like aliens.
In current scientific debates the religious will argue that faith (in a dogma) is needed to (what they call) “understand” the existence of the universe. If confronted with my theory (these lectures) they´d have to agree that logic makes their God unnecessary as a pillar of creation. In the best case scenario God is simply a synonym for Reality (because Reality is “that of which all is part” and thus God ought to be part of it too, and all we know about Reality is that it is energymass in spacetime and separation in intertwinedness).
Having an explanation – the negative side of it is it being three-pillared and unintuitive, the positive side of it being that it accounts for all of Reality and predicts evolution – further justifies the saying “a God of the gaps” (meaning the more we understand the less we need God). Now all that remains to be understood – again in an unintuitive but identical to exoplanets -way – is how, on an infinite time-line, the Big Bang (denseness) recreates and fades away into sparseness (black holes removing energymass and dark energy creating more space until no galaxies are anymore visible).
Lecture 4
The beginning of the Big Bang
I have a hard time imagining how the universe can reach complete emptiness, but it wouldn´t be the first time the universe´s nature surpasses human intuition. In the history of science stars were observed to not move relative to one another on the night sky, and this was argued to prove that the size of the universe was much smaller than the now known size – it was argued that the universe would be “unreasonably big” if the stars didn´t seem to move relative to one another as the earth moved because they were so far away.
If only enough time is needed for the universe to become empty, then we get the starting scenario which is most reasonable: we start with emptiness (spacetime). Again, spacetime is emptier than our concept for it because we (and our concepts) are made of energymass.
If you move your hand one meter (from position 1 to position 2), the laws of nature that make your hand make sense were already in place in the space of position 2 before you moved your hand there. It´s not like the universe/spacetime was absurd in location 2 and only started to make sense regarding hands when you moved your hand there. We do not impact the laws of nature in such ways; instead the laws of nature are simultaneously and equally true at all locations and all times. In other words: Pythagoras’s theorem is true even in locations where there are no objects whatsoever, but the theorem is only applicable (to be applied) to triangles. In empty space there are no objects and thus no triangles, but Pythagoras´s theorem is true there anyhow – it does not suddenly become true (switch from being untrue to true) when a triangle is imagined or physically moved there. This applies to E=mc
2
too, which is just as much of a law of nature as Pythagoras´s theorem. E=mc
2
is true everywhere and always, though humans only apply (use) the equation in certain scenarios. Where triangles can be (in spacetime) there is also E=mc
2
. Laws of nature are fundamental and inherent in spacetime and do not come about depending on events (though our application/use of any particular equation is dependent on which event we´re analyzing).
There is distinction between the practical use of equations (to solve problems or understand a phenomenon) and the core nature of spacetime having laws of nature in it. Spacetime is a no-nonsense spacetime – we live in a rational (laws of nature-abiding) universe.
One law being E=mc
2
and another one being “if it is said it must exist” (meaning energymass can´t be mentioned in the laws of nature of spacetime without energymass existing), we get spacetime to summon energymass if the starting-point was complete emptiness. “If energymass is mentioned it must be summoned” (it is mentioned in E=mc
2
) is true because it would be a nonsense universe if it “talks” about energymass without there being any – just infinite space for eternity with laws of nature regarding energymass, but never any energymass appearing/being present. It would be a nonsense universe if energymass it mentioned but never exists. It would be akin to the universe telling lies (having all these rules like E=mc
2
but never applying them to anything), or the universe babbling gibberish (having inapplicable laws of nature).
Thus, E=mc
2
being a core property of spacetime itself and the “no gibberish”-rule applying, energymass must logically be summoned – but how and where? Extremely dense i.e. everywhere, in the smallest spaces, simultaneously. Why? Our starting-point is spacetime, which needs no prior justification because it is the opposite of existence: it doesn´t exist – it is emptier than our neurons make it out to be. In it Einstein´s theory of relativity is true, meaning that there is no center point (or in other words: all points are the center) so there is no center to the Big Bang. Another way of seeing it is that as soon as there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification), E=mc
2
became true in all locations (in the smallest spaces) simultaneously – no point in space was before another in having E=mc
2
be true in it. Spacetime having E=mc
2
as a core property has E=mc
2
be true everywhere simultaneously; once we have the launching-condition of empty spacetime, through E=mc
2
, energymass is summoned everywhere simultaneously.
This “everywhere” is all things within an event horizon, meaning that things moving away faster than the speed of light (due to dark energy/accelerating cosmic expansion) are not within our event
horizon: they are not part of what can be reasonably called “our 3-dimensional space” (from our location). Things are not part of our universe once their speed hits faster than the speed of light – and many locations, within the boundaries of their respective event horizons, will one day have all energymass moving away from them at speeds faster than the speed of light (this is just the observed fact of accelerating cosmic expansion). Such a finite space with no energymass within its event horizon (all energymass moving away faster than the speed of light) would constitute “completely empty space” i.e. our starting-point for the Big Bang (energymass being summoned due to E=mc
2
).
Consider an infinite size-range - it is made of energymasspacetime: if we draw it as the Y-axis on a diagram, there can´t be a region/length in it (such as the knowable size-range) which is completely empty forever. See fig. 6.
Because of the rules E=mc
2
and “if it is mentioned it must be summoned”/”no-nonsense universe” are true throughout the infinite size-range, there can´t be a region with just spacetime (with its laws of nature) because the laws of spacetime mention energymass; spacetime is inherently tied to and intertwined with energymass – existence and non-existence go together (at all sizes). There would be no logical breaking-point (a particular size) where energymasspacetime transitions into being just spacetime for a range of sizes and then transitions back into energymasspacetime; there is no logical breaking-point where the implications of E=mc
2
(the implication being: energymass and spacetime are in the same equation) stop to be true. The transition seen in fig. 6 is impossible (there is no “empty region”). Having an empty region would be akin to zooming into the decimals of pi and seeing no numbers for a specific array of decimals: 3.14159ÄÄÄÄ265359... The Ä´s can´t be there: it´s a continuous sequence of decimal numbers. There is no break/”empty region” in the continuous decimals of pi just as there is no region of the size-range that can be empty of energymass.
In this chapter I´ve written something akin to “
first
there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification unless you consider that the size-axis of the size-time-diagram is infinite),
then
there was E=mc
2
,
then
there was energymass summoned into the smallest spaces available (available = considered to be within an event horizon and empty)”. This harkens back to previous lectures´ talk about “alien logic” (how exoplanets think). To have it make sense to our brains we use the time-
distinctions “first, then and then” but the real distinction is not in time but in steps in a sequence of logic. In other words all the mentioned steps happened simultaneously to start the Big Bang: E=mc
2
was true as soon as there was spacetime, and as soon as there was that, energymass appeared as not to make the universe absurd (by it talking gibberish or it having an empty region like in fig. 6).
The end of the Big Bang
Telescopes observe that “space is being born” i.e. that the distances between clumps of energymass (galaxies) are getting larger, and at an accelerating pace too. Not only does the Hubble law state that an object a
million light
-
years
away would be receding from us at 21 km/sec and at double the distance twice the speed, but the law states that that speed (for example 21 km/sec a million light years away) is increasing. This is called accelerating cosmic expansion. It means that from our galaxy, when/if we look into the sky trillions of years in the future, we´d see no trace of any other galaxy let alone the cosmic microwave background (because their speeds have passed the speed of light and thus went beyond the event horizon). Once that object a million light years away from us which today is racing away at 21 km/sec reaches 299792 km/sec (the speed of light), it will pass from being within our event horizon to being outside our sphere of events.
This empties our universe or as Hitchens put it: “nothingness is coming”. Once that nothingness comes we have our starting point where we run through the logic of E=mc
2
–> “if it is mentioned it must exist/be summoned” (in order for the universe not to talk gibberish or the infinite size-range not to have a break in it) –> energymass begins as dense (because of relativity and because E=mc
2
is true everywhere simultaneously/equally).
We observe that nothingness (within event horizons) is coming, and beginning from nothingness there is unintuitive logic that has a predictive quality to it: the Big Bang should start dense. This theory works well with lecture 2´s proofs for that “there is more to Reality than can be represented” (the size-time-diagram is infinite) because size is essentially space, and space and time are intertwined into a single spacetime – hence: if size/space is infinite then time must be infinite too. In other words we have reoccurring Big Bangs interspersed along the time-axis of our size-time-diagram. As soon as a region bound by an event horizon becomes empty we have the universe´s no-nonsense-laws kicking in and E=mc
2
summons energymass (in the smallest sizes that are empty equally/simultaneously).
The sequence of consecutive Big Bangs´ beginnings (emptiness leading to energymass being summoned) and ends (accelerating cosmic expansion speeding things past a point´s event horizon and emptiness being summoned) are as infinite as the time-axis proved to be based on lecture 2´s proofs. Proving (in lecture 2) that spacetime is infinite fits perfectly with the reoccurring Big Bangs (when somethingness becomes emptiness and then emptiness summons somethingness).
There will in other words, between the beginning of a Big Bang and the end of that same Big Bang, be life within the conscious/human size-range (the different locations of that size already being infinitely many, see fig. 4).
Each size along the size-axis is defined as “3-dimensional infinite space” meaning there is infinitely much life with access to universal science (i.e. some version of this lecture-series), and within our region (bound by an event horizon) there is life between the beginning and end of Big Bangs. In addition I have hard to believe that a reproducing shape (and thus evolution) only occurs in only
one
size-range (the, for humans, knowable size-range) in an infinite size-range: there ought to be many sub-size-ranges as part of the infinite size-range where evolution occurs and can reach scientific knowledge. All life mentioned above, if they reach scientific understanding, would concur on the existential theory presented in these lectures (especially lecture 3 – the three pillars/foundations/ideas which together become a minimalist theory for why there is the infinite size-range of energymasspacetime in the first place).
This is not only exoplanet science – it is science between Big Bangs and it is science in regions of the size-axis far away (in size) from our knowable size-range. See fig. 7.
Summary
First we looked at Descartes’ ”thought exists” and ”the self exists”, claimed that it was two valid statements and pointed out the distinction between them. On the other side of the paper we wanted to represent anti-distinction (the opposite of distinction) defined as “that of which all is part” (Reality), and realized that since thinker/thought is stuck on the left side of the paper we can’t represent Reality. This is not only Kant’s “the thing is not the thing itself (the mental map is not the real territory)” but more importantly whatever cannot be taken to represent “that of which all is part” i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality.
All we know about Reality (atoms, humans, galaxies) fit into a size-time-diagram (every object has a size and a time), so the minimalist approach combining the above paragraph with this one is to use the first paragraph to prove that the size-time diagram has infinite
axes. This in turn leads to an existential theory which can be summed up as “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime” – and it has a predictive quality to it: somewhere in such an existence there would be a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape and thus we get reproduction/evolution.
So far we’ve looked at the theory of why size itself exists, why there is something rather than nothing – an existential theory beginning from certain truth and logically building its way up all the way to predicting evolution.
Part 2: Evolution
My explanation of evolution focuses on how important disease and bullying (power) was for evolution.
Power
means that
fish
were
fighting fish breeding more agressive fish = dinosaurs, then wolfpacks with an alpha male.
But even before and after those eras in evolution the rule of power was in play.
In part one we had an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime (including the intertwinedness-separation-opposition and the time-axis with repeating Big Bangs perpendicular to the size-axis) that predicts a reproducing shape i.e. a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape: reproduction in an infinite size-range.
This infinite size-range predicts reproduction.
Part one was about why there is a sizescale of energymasspacetime: the answers are that the sizescale is infinite and that energymass is in spacetime. It predicts that there should be a reproducing shape: say that it is a triangle which gathers surrounding lines into a similar triangle – then it has reproduced itself. The products of this reproduction obey three rules: directly when there was reproduction three rules came into play, I´ve listed them below as 1, 2, 3 but they are not in order (they came simultaneously):
1:
There is life and death: those who survive survive and those who die are not in the game anymore. “The surviving survive”. It´s so simple – we see it in everyday life today. But everything in evolution will come back to these three rules so we might as well do the banal and bring them up.
So directly when there was a reproducing shape - so in our part of the size-range a DNA-strand which split in the middle and became two DNA-strands – the copy either survived or died.
2: The second rule is that the number of offspring has significance. That is to say: if you get one child or five children or ten children, there is a difference between those numbers – and in evolution it´s a benefit to have more children. One can also have zero children, and that is approximately like being dead.
Some would say that evolution´s meaning (the main task of life) is to make more offspring – that it´s the scientific meaning of life – Nature´s meaning: to reproduce. But I would answer that evolution makes more offspring (that´s reproduction) and making more offspring gives evolutionary benefits, but Nature itself does not care – it does not care about whether we nuke ourselves or not. There is no God that looks upon us and cares. Even reproduction becomes meaningless in the larger perspective. But in evolution it has significance whether one has zero offspring or ten offspring.
Rule number two (number of offspring matters) just as simple as rule number 1 (that there is life and death; that some live and some die).
The third rule that appered... – well all three rules appeared simultaneously directly when there was reproduction in this sizerange. The third rule is that:
3: There is mutation in every generation-shift. Things change. It doesn’t make perfect copies. Your child (if you have one) is not an exact copy of yourself or your wife – it’s a mutation; a change.
These three rules – 1: that there is life and death, the surviving survive. 2: That there are different nuances in the number of offspring. 3: That there is mutation in every generation-shift – these three rules came into play directly when the first reproduction occurred. We will return to these three rules over and over again; they are like laws of nature that like God says shall work on life directly when the first life reproduces itself. These laws of nature didn’t exist before the first life reproduced itself – they were not active then. They became active directly when there was reproduction.
These are abstract laws that we will manufacture, then we have the physical reality of that in a puddle of water a strand of DNA – a cell – made copies/offspring. Then viruses came into the game and injected its own DNA into the ordinary cells, that is to say: hijacked their reproductive system to create virus-offspring. If this would´ve continued the ocean would´ve been filled with only viruses, so there has to be some next step which made it so that our type of life survived. But the viruses added a 4
th
law (one of these abstract laws)
and that is: if you can hijack someone else’s reproductive system to create your own offspring; if you can inject your DNA into somebody else´s cell so that it creates viruses – I call this “power”. We will return to this word when we for example look at dinosaurs (they became bigger because the men killed each other to get the women whom make offspring). This power-principle was one that came after the three first ones.
The first cells reproduced and we had these three rules, then viruses came and injected their DNA and used “power” to produce more viruses. Then we get an immune-system which kills viruses i.e. protects the original organism´s reproductive system from being hijacked by viruses. So the immune-system evolved to take back the reproductive principle (2: the number of offspring matters); for the fact that one should retain the reproductive capability for oneself – so that no virus can take it over. So power has a lot to do with the number of offspring – principle 4 has a lot to do with principle 2.
We have multicellular organisms with immune-systems, we have viruses around them – and it´s an arms-race between that the viruses mutate to overcome the immune-system and the immune-
system mutates to overcome the virus. Thus we have an evolutionary pressure on mutating the immune-system as much as possible as fast as possible (because the viruses mutate very quickly), and the best way to do that is to combine genes from two different organisms: a man and a woman. So sex has its beginning in viruses.
If this doesn´t make you feel comfortable contemplate this: the truth outweighs positive-thinking. But does one want to remove whatever spreads joy among people? Those who want to defeat the religious violence in the world (I think religion is the biggest unnecessary cause of hatred in the world) – one cannot defeat that without defeating all religiousness simultaneously. To want to defeat one part of religion but not the rest of it is like voting for the Republicans and Democrats simultaneously – it´s just unreal. Sadly one must remove the good to remove the evil. Meditation still remains and one can get a kind of anxietylessness from some thoughts still but in the big picture there are no reasons that support them anymore – it´s just a brain-trick that one does.
In our evolutionary story we had an immune-system which mutates, wants more mutations – we get two genders. Then men begin to war with each other (because, metaphorically speaking, women can produce offspring once a year while men can produce it every day – we have an imbalance; asymmetry). Why is it always men that start wars? It began with the first fish – we had multicellular life in our story so far, so they became a bit bigger, could swim around – we get fish: it´s easier to find food then and easier to move around. Directly when there were two genders there was one fish which evolved to use its teeth for killing other male fish. The first aggressor of course got the most offspring because there were no other men around. That´s why men go to war: they can produce offspring with so many women while a woman has no benefit from having 1000 men.
There´s a caveat to
this once we get to caveman tribes/wolf-packs where a woman secretly wants many men to provide resources to her child, but at least in the era between fish and dinosaurs the picture was simply based on asymmetric reproductive rates.
So then the male fish grow more aggressive, the child who is the biggest and has the sharpest teeth kills the other male fish, has the most offspring; and in the next generation, again: the child with the most aggression and biggest muscles gets the most offspring – that´s how we get to dinosaurs and T-rex. We had males competing/fighting with each other and that´s why T-rex is so large. That is, again, the power-principle: just like viruses took over the reproductive system from the first cells, T-rex takes away the reproductive system from his rivals by killing them. So this principle number 4 (power) lives on – it has caused/causes so much: it causes the first viruses, it causes T-rex, that fish become aggressive, that we get two genders (by viruses getting power – so we wanted to counter that power by immune-systems i.e. two genders).
These dinosaurs then, just like humans don´t seem to have (sarcasm), any concept of preserving natural resources – so they would´ve eaten up all their trees and not had any food left. But on our planet it seems to have been a meteor-strike which wiped them out, but on exoplanets i.e. overall in this evolutionary series of evolutionary pressures causing various principles (first the three first principles, then the 4
th
principle, immune-systems, two-genderedness, bigger
fish, fights between the fish, dinosaurs). The dinosaurs ate their natural resources and all large life dies - so only small rat-like/squirrel-like life-forms live on.
The trees grow back up – we get monkeys.
Groups tend to, in a fight – if it´s a group against an individual (one against many) – the group tends to win. So we monkeys form groups, fighting together for food against individualists. The individualists lost.
So we got this - or had it from the get-go (just like with the first aggressors) – instinct that makes us want to be highest in the hierarchy and thereby get all the women. Power again. But this time it´s a kind of human power – we saw power when viruses took over the reproductive systems, we saw power when dinosaurs outcompeted their rivals (the men), we see power when a bully goes to the top of the hierarchy, pushes down the other men – and the women want the bully´s resources (he has the most stuff) so they´re attracted to him, so he gets the most offspring – out of his offspring the one that is best at getting power the one that gets most offspring.
The reason for why the brain grew so fast during the past 100 000 years was because we used the brain to plan for how to climb upward in the hierarchy. The reproductive benefits coming from being high-status in the hierarchy were so great comparing to being low-status that this put great selection-pressure on bigger brains.
Now we basically have caveman living in hierarchical societies, we have kings, aristocrats and slaves – and that is how the world was 5000 years ago. The kings build monumental architecture (pyramids and such). Then someone focused on a random word – so someone focused on what we talked about in part 1: Reality (that of which all is part) and realized one cannot see it (because we should be part of it, or the other two proofs for not being able to see all there is to Reality) and thus they invented the word God: it is one, one cannot see it – we have the dawn of monotheism.
Someone random-focused on the word “soul/self” too and realized one gets less anxiety by making a distinction between the body
one sees in ones imaginations
21.12
Author
yonis
Posted on
30/11/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Latest version of my book
Del 2: Evolutionsteorin
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/del2-interse-evolution.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
14/11/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Del 2: Evolutionsteorin
Posts navigation
Page
1
Page
2
Next page
Search for:
Search
Recent Posts
Talet 3
Sammanfattning universell kurs interse 11-01-2017
From Certain Truth to Dinosaurs (with Maan and Marwan)
War and Boredom
2 Nobel Prizes
Recent Comments
Archives
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
January 2016
Categories
Dagbok
Old
The book + diagrams
Trashcan
Trey
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.org
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Proudly powered by WordPress

Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen – Everyone needs to know the basics
Skip to content
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Everyone needs to know the basics
Talet 3
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/talet-3.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
17/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Talet 3
Sammanfattning universell kurs interse 11-01-2017
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/sammanfattning-universell-kurs-interse-11-01-2017.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
11/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Sammanfattning universell kurs interse 11-01-2017
From Certain Truth to Dinosaurs (with Maan and Marwan)
Author
yonis
Posted on
05/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on From Certain Truth to Dinosaurs (with Maan and Marwan)
War and Boredom
War-and-Boredom
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen, Sweden
1
War and Boredom
The title of this book refers to that it is hard to get through this book. The reason why this new science (that I present in this book) hasn’t been discovered until I did is because part 1 of this book gives a sense of meaninglessness toward the Universe and part 2 deals with evolution in a depressing way because the main trend is “power”.
Writing it gave me anxiety and reading it gives many people anxiety.
But the question is: does everyone agree on it? If they do, that changes the Israel-Palestine-conflict where the parties of God are vetoing
regarding the borders of
the
“holy land”; it changes religious extremism and the wars fought over it. Religion is the biggest cause for hatred
in the world, as Hitchens said. My book
is
a minimalist theory
that
encompasses all one needs to understand
Everything: existence (why there is size itself) and
evolution – even thoughts about the future of humanity/evolution.
Even though there comes a sense of meaninglessness from knowing the existential theory and a sense of depression from knowing evolution, there is
a sense of
honor in having the right world-view.
Most importantly, the religious wars - ISIS/Israel/etc. - can be demolished by a world-view which everyone agrees on. War only continues because it is boring to learn and teach the course I present in this book. Hence the book´s name: War and Boredom, or: how boredom (toward science) keeps the wars continuing.
Not only can this book end wars, but it can unify people so that they feel more friendliness toward each other – science is a language and speaking the same language makes it easier to make friends. Having the same associations between concepts (a scientific world-view) gives people a lot to agree on, they´ll “speak the same language”.
If anyhow you get too bored to study further, there are three parts to this book (1: the existential theory, 2: evolution, 3: the dawn of religion), and they’re written with different styles. You may jump to either part directly.
Lecture 1
Descartes
One of the aims of this course is to get EVERYONE to agree so that they have the same associations between scientific concepts.
There is no other proper way to accomplish this goal than by starting with certain truth, which was found by Descartes in the 1600s. He lived in a time where they believed in demons, Gods etc. so he postulated a thought experiment where he assumed an almighty demon was fooling him in everything he could be fooled in: what would remain as certain truth – what could he not be fooled in?
If he was being fooled, where would still be a “he” (or self) there to be fooled, meaning that the self certainly exists. A self is necessary for a self to be fooled.
Descartes had thus concluded his own existence.
Being fooled is thinking – thus thought exists. “There is thought” Descartes concluded as certain truth. The word “fooling” represents a thought-process.
Descartes found the starting-position for any inquiry about truth: we can know certainly that thinker and thought exists.
Distinction exists (a logical conclusion from the above)
Looking at what we´ve found as certain truth so far “from above” (meta), we can take the next logical step – adding a third factoid to our 2-statement (A and B above) starting position: that there is distinction (
between
thinker and thought). The fact that thinker and thought are two separate entities concluded to be certain truth
s
through two
different
logical pathway
s
lets us conclude that “distinction exists”
. There are what Chinese philosophy calls “the ten thousand things” (referring to the world) – there are at least two (three if we include “distinction” as th
e third thing) certain entities, and empirically we know there are “ten thousand things” (not taking the number 10 000 literally but just referring to multiplicity).
First universal diagram
We can draw the thinker and thought and distinction between them as two dots with a line between them on a piece of paper (fig. 1).
Now we have something all religions agree on
– we´ve drawn up ideas and associations between them. Everyone ought to have the same associations (explanatory thoughts) between the concepts we´ve looked at so far.
We have, if you will – in figure 1 – a universal diagram.
Reality
We have the capability to conglomerate many separate entities under the rubric of a single category. If we use this capability to collect the “ten thousand things” (distinct entities) we´ve found so far into a single thing, we ought to give that thing a word/name. Its definition can be “that of which all is
part” and “the opposite of separation/distinction”. I will use the word Reality to refer to this all-encompassing thing.
In lecture 2 I will present three proofs for that “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, but for now we can draw (adding to figure 1) a dot with a cross over it – the cross to symbolize that the dot itself is a false representation of Reality because we (the observer/self/thinker) should be part of that dot. See fig 2.
Thinking about what we´ve got so far
Thinking about what we´ve got so far (fig. 2) it’s a bundle of associations which make universal inter-religious (all religions agree on it) knowledge with both words and pictures.
In the next lecture I present why the line in fig 2 (see fig 3) represents the opposition/antagonism/disagreement/contraposition/divergence/variance between the two sides of the paper; between “thinker and thought” on one side of the paper and “Reality (that of which all is part; the opposite of separation)” on the other side of the paper.
Worth noting now is that the left side of the paper represents separation/distinction whilst the right side of the paper represents the opposite of separation/distinction – both are legitimate ideas: thinker and thought – and distinction – is certain truth based on Descartes and we all know which idea we refer to when talking about the all-encompassing [that of which all is part] Reality.
In the next lecture we will talk about why the line in fig. 3 makes it so that we can´t see Reality – I will present three proofs like in a crime case, and we will talk about what we can see if we can´t see Reality.
Making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far
1
See fig. 1 again: it´s our starting-point and the thinking that occurs in it happens in Descartes “realm of mind”; it is the mind´s realm (the left side of the paper) in which the thinking happens, and one thing we talk about is Reality on the right side of the paper in fig 3. Since the line in fig. 3 represents both the legitimacy of the ideas on both sides of the paper, and simultaneously the opposition between separation/distinction (on the left side of the paper) and [the opposite of separation/distinction] on the right side of the paper. That opposition is important and I will show its significance in lecture 2.
2
Starting from Descartes realm (of if you will: assuming that all we know is what we know for certain), we have the capability to state that there is a single Reality of which all is part – so even though we see separation we must grant that that separation (all entities) fits into a category we call Reality. There is a unifying whole even though the human mind (Descartes realm) is limited in its ways when it tries to contemplate Reality.
Not only is there the map-territory distinction (which will be presented as one out of three proofs in lecture 2), but there is also a more fundamental opposition between distinction and its opposite (there is a more fundamental opposition between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3). Not only are we stuck in the map-territory-distinction-realm but we also can conclude that no representation (regardless of the mind) is equal to Reality (on a more fundamental level than the map-territory-problem).
Representation is done in the brain using neurons and in a computer using electrons, but there is no reason why the most distant atom or quark couldn´t be proposed to be a symbol for [that of which all is part] – and even in that brainless scenario we will see in lecture 2 that “that of which all is part cannot be represented”. The map-territory-distinction is just proof/evidence number two in lecture 2 (for that we cannot see Reality and thus, since we do see/represent something, there must be more to Reality than can be represented i.e. the size-time-diagram (presented in lecture
2) is infinite along both axes.
Proof 3 in lecture 2 removes the brain from the equation and still proves that there is more to Reality than can be seen/represented/symbolized (using any means/any method – even without a brain), and since some representation is obviously (since we know that there are minds) possible, there must be more than can be represented/contemplated i.e. the size-axis is infinite and the time-axis is infinite in that two-axis diagram.
3
Both sides of the paper in fig. 3 are legitimate ideas. But still they are opposites (separation on one side and the opposite of separation on the other side). How can two derived-from-logic sides of the paper be opposites but still both be legitimate?
Usually opposition – like between Democrats and
Republicans – means that one is right and the other is wrong; they can´t both simultaneously be right: you can´t meaningfully vote for both parties at the same time.
The case is different between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3: both sides are right and they are opposites.
There is a single Reality and there is multiplicity in distinction.
What does this mean? That there is more to the size-time-diagram than anything could represent – any representation fails (you can think of some examples/suggestions for how to represent [that of which all is part]/[the opposite of separation]) – and thus the axes on the size-time-diagram are infinite. This is a hither to unpresented fact in science – it is new science: some of the best scientists ignorantly believe that the size-range is limited/finite.
4
We have quite a few associations and symbols in fig. 3 which must be agreed upon, and here I´m using the word “must” in the sense that “by the rules of logic X must be true”. Other civilizations throughout the infinitely many galaxies there are use the exact same ideas (but in a different language) and have the same associations between them (that there are infinitely many galaxies is derived from that the size-axis in the size-time-diagram is infinite). There is distinction as the third truth to be added to Descartes two fundamental truths (thinker and thought exist), and all that is opposed to (on the other side of the paper in fig. 3) to the all-encompassing Reality which is defined using at least two definitions: that of which all is part and the opposite of separation.
I´m tri-lingual but I write the same ideas and associate them in the same ways no matter which language I write in – its universal science beginning from certain truth. On other planets that have civilizations my writings in this book ought to match up quite near to the writings creating the same lecture series based on universal science that I´m creating
– “alien”/exo-planet
lecture series proceed, beginning from certain fact, through logical steps as I do.
5
[Thinker and thought] (certain truth) and thus distinction/separation are associated through negation/opposition to the right side of the paper in figure 3: Reality. The left side is not the right side just like separation is not its opposites. Both being legitimate ideas, though, connects them in the way that thinker and thought (and all other distinct entities) are in the category Reality.
Even though Reality and distinction are opposites, distinction dwells in (as a sub-entity within the category) Reality.
The associations between the left and right sides of the paper in figure 3 are both united through the notion “opposition” and through the notion that distinction is inherent in Reality (Reality being the opposite of distinction
because we have all-encompassing and its opposite: composite parts).
6
It is certainly true that all is part of a single Reality; but it is equally true that in every observation there is an observer and hence distinction (between thinker and thought). We see separate entities is as true as that the self that we are is not in front of us – but everything we see (thought/object) is in front of us.
That is evidence 1 in lecture 2 (not a proof, but a mere suggestion/evidence that [that of which all is part cannot be observed] and thus there is more to Reality than our concept of [infinitely much].
All we know about Reality has two properties: a size and a time. Size and time are two axes on a diagram, and thus all we know fits into the size-time-diagram (every object or location in space
has a size and time).
There is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram because all suggested representors for Reality fail
(for three reasons taken up in lecture 2).
7
All
bundles of associations in this chapter “making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far”
are written in order to create some universal brain structures (universal because science is the same everywhere (on all exo-planets), and their brains make the same associations too eventually). It´s not some random bundle of associations nor did I randomly present random ideas.
I assume the brain structure created by understanding this book is a replica of something derived from science; a replica of brain structures on the infinitely many other civilization-bearing planets. It´s a universal “ideology”, if you will.
Everyone has a possibility of sharing it in agreement – and future lectures will add a whole lot of complexity to it; agreement tends to build friendship so study is a way of bringing more peace to the world.
Once the full world-view is presented throughout this book, it´s a way of pacifying the world.
8
We have two brain-halves: one linguistic and one visual. So far we´ve both drawn pictorial representations and connected words – both brain-halves have been working. The connections across corpus collosum (which sits between the brain-halves and connects them) that connect a linguistic narrative/explanation to the pictorial representations are one day found in all humans thanks to science. Our brains are becoming more as science has a propensity to make them be.
This course itself, since it begins with certain truths and builds upon it logically, is a universal course (to the best of my ability).
The brain cells that constitute the negation (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 3) or opposition are not the same kind of cells (they are inhibitory neurons) that connect thinker with though as both being certain truths (but the thinker is not the thought and thus has inhibitory cells making that brain-structure work too
(what you are is not in front of you;
what you are is not visible).
Since both Reality and [what you are]/self/observer/thinker are invisible the brain might erroneously and spontaneously try to associate them, so a brain-structure is needed to inhibit that association (and replace it with a more complex explanation). That spontaneous but erroneous association is something all thinking animals throughout the universe evolved to do, and the inhibition of it through culture/civilizing/science is universally available within complex enough civilizations throughout the universe.
As you can see the brain structures responsible for doing this thing are quite complex, but also universal and thus accessible to all humans, and predictably will someday be in all humans (fostering agreement, thus friendship, thus peace).
Lecture 2
Perceive, apprehend, notice are synonyms for our representing ability, but I will use the word “see” or “observe” to refer to all of these. The goal of this lecture is to prove the statement “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, Reality being defined as “that of which all is part”. In other words: we cannot see Reality, and thus there is more to Reality than even can be contemplated (i.e. infinitely much).
I will build this lecture like a criminal court case: I will present three proofs for that we cannot see Reality i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated i.e. (since we can contemplate anything (right or wrong)) Reality is infinite.
Since anything/everything we know about Reality has some size and time, it fits into a size-time-diagram. See fig. 4.
In fig. 4 size is represented along the vertical axis and time along the horizontal axis. The objects humans see in everyday life (from the horizon to a single cell as one “pixel” in our visual field) are marked in “the human range”.
See fig 5.
In fig. 5 I´ve drawn the same diagram as in fig. 4 but this time with infinity-symbols in each corner of the squareical size-time-diagram. Two infinite axes become a square.
Proof number 3 in our “court case” for proving that the size-time-diagram (Reality) is infinite has us imagine the unobservable separatenessless Reality and ask whether there is a maximum or minimum size to/in it (a maximum/minimum being separateness while we are talking about the opposite of separation). This is again to confirm that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes.
The line we drew in fig. 4 was for separating the two sides of the paper; opposing “thinker and thought” (distinction) with its opposite: one all-encompassing non-distinction Reality. That opposition-line is what this lecture is about since it proves that the two sides of the paper are separate/opposing realms and we are stuck in one realm as long as we are observers (because observation is separation/distinction (thinker and thought)).
Proving that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes is new science because it poses the question: what happened before the Big Bang (14 billion years ago), and it presents one pillar of our existential theory: that each size is the reason for each next and previous size, and the size axis is infinite, meaning the “beginning” of the relationship between sizes keeps retreating into infinity the more we contemplate the range of the size axis.
When I presented fig. 4 for the first time I drew a cross over the dot symbolizing Reality for the plain reason that we (as observers) should be part of that dot, and by the very nature of us being separate (and the dot representing the opposite of separation) we should draw a cross over it symbolizing that we cannot see it.
The main proof though is that even if all observers were dead there´d still be, inherent and fundamental in nature, the opposition between distinction and distinction´s opposite (the two sides of the paper in fig. 4). The line is an opposition-line and it is more fundamental than being dependent on humans/observers – it refers to all representation whether it’s using/including humans or not. I am, in other words, not talking about the map-territory distinction (which symbolizes that humans have mental maps and not the real world per se; like Kant said: we have “the thing” and not “the thing itself”). Proof 2 – the opposition-line between the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 – is not subjective: it is true that we live with the map-territory-distinction but even if I died there´d still be separate things (chairs separate from cups), that kind of separation is not dependent on me/observers. Simultaneously the flipside of the coin (the other side of the paper in fig. 4) is true too: all is one single Reality (the opposite of separation). Proof 2, in other words, should not be interpreted as signifying the map-territory distinction (human subjectivity) but instead a fundamental opposition in the universe.
If we do not see Reality, then what do we see? Everything we see fits into the size-time-diagram, and since the opposition-line in fig. 4 shows that there is a fundamental rule that states, in 3 different proofs, that Reality is infinite / there is more than can even be contemplated / there is more than even non-subjective representation can represent.
Proof number 1 is really weaker than a “proof” – it´s more like evidence. It wouldn´t hold up in a court but it is a way of stating what the other proofs too point towards. Proof 1 is what we saw when presenting figure 4: any dot representing Reality is an incorrect representation because the observer should be part of the object – the thinker should be part of the thought. It denies Cartesian separation and thus is untrue, meaning that anything we draw on the right side of the paper in fig. 4 is incorrect.
We can contemplate anything: we can speculate about what´s smaller than quantum physics, or even what´s smaller than that, etc. into infinity. We are probably wrong, but any contemplation/representation counts as a contemplation – and since we know that, whether right or wrong as our contemplations may be, there is more to Reality than can be contemplated, it follows
that there must be infinitely much to Reality. Since all we know about Reality fits into a size-time-diagram, the minimalist approach is to state that it´s the size-time-diagram that is infinite.
This warrants two new words: the knowable/known size-range and the infinite size-range. The knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range. Since Einstein unified space (size) and time, one cannot be infinite without the other one being the same. Science today doesn´t know whether there was a “before” to the Big Bang or not (whether time was created at the Big Bang), but now we know that the Big Bang is just an event on an infinite time axis. In a future lecture we will talk about how/why the Big Bang recreates (happens over and over).
We talked about universal diagrams (and universal brain-structures) in lecture 1. The size-time-diagram is one major universal diagram. A lot of detail can be added to it because all fields of science fit into it. The infinity-symbols on each axis of the squareical diagram are drawn, based on science, on exo-planets with advanced enough civilizations.
This lecture is about proving that [that of which all is part] (the opposite of separation) i.e. Reality cannot be observed/represented, and that this fact is true irrespective of whether we are observers or dead, and applying this to the size-time-diagram (which gets its infinity-symbols into the squareical diagram).
Proof number 2 (the main proof) is the oppositional approach between Reality and distinction, and it is not subjective because Reality and Reality´s opposite exist even if we were dead. Proof number 3 is about imagining (even though no imagination is it) Reality as a big gray (because energymass is white and spacetime is black) solid, in which we know no observer should be (because observation is separation) – does it have separation i.e. a biggest and a smallest size? No, because such distinctions are not in the opposite of distinction (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 4).
I´ve mentioned universal associations in the brain / exo-planet science, so talking about the size-time-diagram we can add more universal notions to it: why did I draw upwards on the size axis as larger and downward as smaller? Why is the time-axis horizontally drawn instead of vertically? The diagram works even if we would define the vertical axis as time and the horizontal axis as size – so why do we draw size vertically and time horizontally? Is it universal i.e. on other planets or just a human convention like writing from left to right in English-speaking countries and right to left in Arabic-speaking countries?
Evolution has it so that during the history of science telescopes look upward and microscopes look downward. This would be the case on other planets too: they turn their heads upward to see the large and downward (onto a table) to see the small; the opposite can´t be true on any planet. Thus we get the size axis´ standard (of upward being larger) from evolution / the history of science. I use the word “standard” because it comes from evolution rather than being more fundamentally hard-wired into the universe such as the fact that the size-time-diagram is a square with infinity symbols. That the size-time-diagram is a square is not a standard – it is something stronger than that. The fact that we represent time on the vertical axis (and upward as larger) comes from a weaker source: tradition (even though that same tradition is true on all planets; evolution, in this regard, happens the same on all planets that end up with civilizations).
We thus have added standards or weak conventions (derived from history) in addition to having strong diagrams like the size-time-diagram being a square. The distinction between the two is made based on science and is thus made on exo-planets.
Scientists are looking for exo-planets that bear civilizations. If the size-range is infinite – as we´ve proven that it is – then each particular size (like the human range in fig. 5) is infinite too; if the largest is infinitely large then there is, considering the size of a human, an infinite distance in any direction that that human could find itself in. This makes civilizations on other planets a must, not an assumption. The known/knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range, and within the known size-range there is a range in which evolution occurs (between the smallest cells and the biggest organisms), and since we´ve proven that there are infinitely many objects within/of that size-range, then there must be infinitely many locations in which evolution occurs.
In the next lecture we will bind together the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 (distinction and distinction´s opposite; “thinker and thought” opposing Reality) with E=mc
2
(energymasspacetime) and with the infinity of the size-time axes, into a single existential theory which is a rival to “God created earth in 6 days…” The existential theory is a minimalist account for why there is a sizescale in the first place, and why there is something (energymass) rather than nothing (spacetime). It reminds me of this passage: “HITCHENS: In other words, as the great physicist Laplace said when he demonstrated his working model (his orrery, as it’s called) of the solar system to the emperor and Napoleon said, “Well I see there’s no God in this system,” and Laplace said, “Well, Your Majesty, it works without that assumption.””
In this chapter I´ve presented three proofs for that the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in it i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated; we do represent something but however we choose to represent (even representations that can be proposed as thought-experiments if we were dead) we do not represent Reality i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality. Are there any counter-arguments saying that the size-time-diagram is finite? I built this lecture like a court case and I´d like to hear the opposing side. There are no arguments that oppose what I´ve proven so far.
Lecture 3
E=mc
2
E=mc
2
as an equation is only used in relativistic scenarios such as very high speed or very high energy, but since speed is a continuum the equation is true at slower speeds. There is a difference between the equation being applicable (being needed while solving equations) and it being true; it is always true everywhere but it is not needed for equations except in special scenarios.
An example of the equation being true everywhere and always is this: nuclear power-plants turn mass (kilograms) into energy (joule), so that if you input 1 kg of uranium-mass you get out 99.9999 kg of waste products – some of the mass turned into energy which lights our light-bulbs. The atoms that lost some weight (that weight was converted into energy) are atoms just like other kinds of atoms, for example in autumn leaves. If you´d drop leaves into the core of the sun, the sun´s nuclear furnace
would turn mass in the leaves into energy (light). Hence all objects are subject to the E=mc
2
-rule, which states that energy (E) equals mass (m). This warrants the word energymass because they are no longer two distinct things – they are but different manifestations of the same thing. In the brain energymass should be a single idea whilst the concepts “energy and mass” refers to two different forms of a single idea.
Verbs and adjectives tend to refer to energy (shining, running, etc.) while nouns refer to mass (body, tree, etc.) E=mc
2
states that the two (verbs/adjectives and nouns) are together in a single equation. Although only applicable in relativistic scenarios (the role of relativism becomes close to zero in everyday human events, except that our light-bulbs shine because mass turns into energy and the sun can makes leaves into light), E=mc
2
is in a “philosophical” sense true everywhere and always just like Pythagoras’s theorem about triangles remains “philosophically true” even where there are no physical triangles. You wouldn´t say 1=1 is not true in empty space just because there are no objects there to count as “1”.
In addition to energymass being a single concept (and not two distinct ones), spacetime gets added into the mix by the c
2
-part of the equation. c is the speed of light (km/h) and thus a distance (space) over time – spacetime! Energymass (E=m) and spacetime (c
2
) should in the brain be represented by a single idea which we can call energymasspacetime. This harkens back to the previous lectures about Reality, which is a synonym for energymasspacetime. Einstein invented the equation E=mc
2
and thus unified in it energymass with spacetime – and synonyms for energymass are “existence” or “1” while synonyms for spacetime are “non-existence”, “emptiness”, “nothing” and “zero”. There is no more to be considered regarding Reality than energymasspacetime; energymasspacetime involves everything (energymass) and nothing (spacetime) so there is nothing more to be considered/added to Reality – Reality is energymasspacetime; everything is included into Reality once we have defined Reality as energymasspacetime.
The Existential Theory
Each culture seems to have a creation myth (such as genesis) – the creation of the cosmos/world/Reality is something humans have invented hypotheses for during millennia. The stories answer the question “why are we here?”
The true answer is unintuitive. First of all: why is there any particular size? What justifies, say, the size of a molecule? The answer is: the smaller and the larger (the rest of the size-range). Atoms justify a molecule and a molecule exhibits a place for atoms to live in: justifies atoms. Humans need an earth to dwell on (the earth is larger) and humans are made of cells (cells are smaller). Each size bears a relationship upon each other size – the smaller justify the larger and the larger justify the smaller. Since the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all four corners of the square (because of the proof where we had two sides of a paper), the size-range is infinite i.e. the pattern of justification between/amongst sizes continues into the infinitely large and infinitely small. What the ancients called “the first cause” keeps retreating into infinity size-wise the more we contemplate it. The size-range is like a fractal: you can keep zooming in or out infinitely much, and the question “why is there this particular object that I see” has its answer in the relationship between all the sizes: justification. Infinite justification is the reason why there is a size-range at all. But there is more that is needed for a full-fledged existential theory: two more factors play their roles.
Spacetime is emptier than we can imagine/represent it. We (and all representeurs) are energymass and thus are the opposite of spacetime. We could let a piece of empty space represent spacetime, but as soon as we use energymass (such as our brains) to do so, we´ve lost the truly empty nature of spacetime: it is unimaginably empty. Any bundle of neurons, no matter how we wire it, is still the opposite of what they want to represent when they want to present us with spacetime. It is therefore useful to have two concepts for spacetime: (1) our simplest intuition of spacetime and (2) additional defining language explaining that spacetime is emptier than (1). This is how exoplanet civilizations would wire their brains regarding the concept “spacetime” too, just because it’s the most accurate science they can manage.
Just like energy and mass are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon, energymass and spacetime are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon. What does it mean for spacetime to be bundled together with (intertwined with) energymass? Everything exists as/in/because of nothing; 1 exists in 0; energymass and spacetime are together in the E=mc
2
-equation. Where could energymass/existence exist? In nothingness. Just like sizes justify one another, spacetime justifies energymass.
The last question that remains, after we have justification between sizes in an infinite size-range, and that all points in the size-time-diagram are made of energymasspacetime (and energymass is justified by it being in spacetime), is the objective fact that there both is a single Reality (the right side of the paper) and there´s its opposite: distinction (between, say, thinker and thought).
The existential theory builds on three “pillars”/fundamental ideas:
An infinite sizescale,
Energymasspacetime as in the equation E=mc
2
Distinction between distinction itself and distinction´s opposite (see fig. 1, 2, 3):
Between distinction (the left side of the paper, our 2 certain truths: I exist and there is thought) and Reality (the opposite of distinction; one Reality (not plural)) there is a line that demarcates distinction/opposition.
Putting it all into one phrase we might say: “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime with opposition between distinction and Oneness”. At its core it´s three ideas (infinite size-time-diagram, energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
), separation and intertwinedness (the two sides of the paper)). On exoplanets they would state their reason for their own existence using these three ideas too, because taken together they explain all that needs to be explained: first thing that comes to mind is that in the stated existential theory there must be a reproducing shape (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape; a DNA-strand) somewhere. If the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all three corners, then evolution ought to occur somewhere (and be made of energymass in spacetime, while being separate/distinct in a single intertwined Reality).
Most creation-myths have a quite simple (one-pillared) and mundane story: for example genesis just states that God created Reality (that of which all is part) in 6 days and rested on the 7
th
. The scientific rival to all such creation stories is a three-pillared theory – we can´t make it any simpler (we can´t make it one-pillared) and the same would be the case on exoplanets: they too can only break it down to three interconnected ideas/pillars/fundaments, so in thinking this way we share a common intellectual history with exoplanet civilizations advanced enough to figure out this existential theory.
On a test on this subject a question might be: “what are the three pillars of the existential theory?” – the question can´t be “what is the most important pillar in the existential theory?” All pillars are
equally important but constitute as distinct ideas as E=mc
2
is from infinite size, or the separation-intertwinedness-opposition (fig. 3).
This three-pillared creation story – the sum of these three chapters – is built upon logic: it includes certain truths like “I think and I exist” (distinction/separation), its opposite (Reality for which we have three proofs for that it can´t be observed/seen/contemplated i.e. the size-time-diagram is infinite), E=mc
2
which unifies nothing/spacetime with existence/energymass, and the relationship between any two sizes (justification along the infinite size-range). Every one of these ideas relates very closely to Descartes´ certain truth, meaning we can be sure of the ideas themselves – and they together build up a minimalist existential theory which needs no further logic to explain everything there is.
Having an infinite size-range has a predictive quality to it too – it makes a prediction: there ought to be evolution (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar mass) somewhere in the diversity we see throughout even the known size-range.
Though as non-intuitive as the 3-pillar existential theory may be to our evolved brains who want a single conclusion, exoplanet civilizations have the same limits and biases as us: they too are stuck with three pillars in a single theory to make the theory explainable. Science is creating universal (exoplanet) neural pathways in our brains. We should embrace the fact that by being non-intuitive but true, this science wires our brain based on science and thus universally. It is the way (the wiring) that all planets are headed to if they´re into science. It´s a universal world-view. We´re thinking like aliens.
In current scientific debates the religious will argue that faith (in a dogma) is needed to (what they call) “understand” the existence of the universe. If confronted with my theory (these lectures) they´d have to agree that logic makes their God unnecessary as a pillar of creation. In the best case scenario God is simply a synonym for Reality (because Reality is “that of which all is part” and thus God ought to be part of it too, and all we know about Reality is that it is energymass in spacetime and separation in intertwinedness).
Having an explanation – the negative side of it is it being three-pillared and unintuitive, the positive side of it being that it accounts for all of Reality and predicts evolution – further justifies the saying “a God of the gaps” (meaning the more we understand the less we need God). Now all that remains to be understood – again in an unintuitive but identical to exoplanets -way – is how, on an infinite time-line, the Big Bang (denseness) recreates and fades away into sparseness (black holes removing energymass and dark energy creating more space until no galaxies are anymore visible).
Lecture 4
The beginning of the Big Bang
I have a hard time imagining how the universe can reach complete emptiness, but it wouldn´t be the first time the universe´s nature surpasses human intuition. In the history of science stars were observed to not move relative to one another on the night sky, and this was argued to prove that the
size of the universe was much smaller than the now known size – it was argued that the universe would be “unreasonably big” if the stars didn´t seem to move relative to one another as the earth moved because they were so far away.
If only enough time is needed for the universe to become empty, then we get the starting scenario which is most reasonable: we start with emptiness (spacetime). Again, spacetime is emptier than our concept for it because we (and our concepts) are made of energymass.
If you move your hand one meter (from position 1 to position 2), the laws of nature that make your hand make sense were already in place in the space of position 2 before you moved your hand there. It´s not like the universe/spacetime was absurd in location 2 and only started to make sense regarding hands when you moved your hand there. We do not impact the laws of nature in such ways; instead the laws of nature are simultaneously and equally true at all locations and all times. In other words: Pythagoras’s theorem is true even in locations where there are no objects whatsoever, but the theorem is only applicable (to be applied) to triangles. In empty space there are no objects and thus no triangles, but Pythagoras´s theorem is true there anyhow – it does not suddenly become true (switch from being untrue to true) when a triangle is imagined or physically moved there. This applies to E=mc
2
too, which is just as much of a law of nature as Pythagoras´s theorem. E=mc
2
is true everywhere and always, though humans only apply (use) the equation in certain scenarios. Where triangles can be (in spacetime) there is also E=mc
2
. Laws of nature are fundamental and inherent in spacetime and do not come about depending on events (though our application/use of any particular equation is dependent on which event we´re analyzing).
There is distinction between the practical use of equations (to solve problems or understand a phenomenon) and the core nature of spacetime having laws of nature in it. Spacetime is a no-nonsense spacetime – we live in a rational (laws of nature-abiding) universe.
One law being E=mc
2
and another one being “if it is said it must exist” (meaning energymass can´t be mentioned in the laws of nature of spacetime without energymass existing), we get spacetime to summon energymass if the starting-point was complete emptiness. “If energymass is mentioned it must be summoned” (it is mentioned in E=mc
2
) is true because it would be a nonsense universe if it “talks” about energymass without there being any – just infinite space for eternity with laws of nature regarding energymass, but never any energymass appearing/being present. It would be a nonsense universe if energymass it mentioned but never exists. It would be akin to the universe telling lies (having all these rules like E=mc
2
but never applying them to anything), or the universe babbling gibberish (having inapplicable laws of nature).
Thus, E=mc
2
being a core property of spacetime itself and the “no gibberish”-rule applying, energymass must logically be summoned – but how and where? Extremely dense i.e. everywhere, in the smallest spaces, simultaneously. Why? Our starting-point is spacetime, which needs no prior justification because it is the opposite of existence: it doesn´t exist – it is emptier than our neurons make it out to be. In it Einstein´s theory of relativity is true, meaning that there is no center point (or in other words: all points are the center) so there is no center to the Big Bang. Another way of seeing it is that as soon as there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification), E=mc
2
became true in all locations (in the smallest spaces) simultaneously – no point in space was before another in having E=mc
2
be true in it. Spacetime having E=mc
2
as a core property has E=mc
2
be true everywhere
simultaneously; once we have the launching-condition of empty spacetime, through E=mc
2
, energymass is summoned everywhere simultaneously.
This “everywhere” is all things within an event horizon, meaning that things moving away faster than the speed of light (due to dark energy/accelerating cosmic expansion) are not within our event horizon: they are not part of what can be reasonably called “our 3-dimensional space” (from our location). Things are not part of our universe once their speed hits faster than the speed of light – and many locations, within the boundaries of their respective event horizons, will one day have all energymass moving away from them at speeds faster than the speed of light (this is just the observed fact of accelerating cosmic expansion). Such a finite space with no energymass within its event horizon (all energymass moving away faster than the speed of light) would constitute “completely empty space” i.e. our starting-point for the Big Bang (energymass being summoned due to E=mc
2
).
Consider an infinite size-range - it is made of energymasspacetime: if we draw it as the Y-axis on a diagram, there can´t be a region/length in it (such as the knowable size-range) which is completely empty forever. See fig. 6.
Because of the rules E=mc
2
and “if it is mentioned it must be summoned”/”no-nonsense universe” are true throughout the infinite size-range, there can´t be a region with just spacetime (with its laws of nature) because the laws of spacetime mention energymass; spacetime is inherently tied to and intertwined with energymass – existence and non-existence go together (at all sizes). There would be no logical breaking-point (a particular size) where energymasspacetime transitions into being just spacetime for a range of sizes and then transitions back into energymasspacetime; there is no logical breaking-point where the implications of E=mc
2
(the implication being: energymass and spacetime are in the same equation) stop to be true. The transition seen in fig. 6 is impossible (there is no “empty region”). Having an empty region would be akin to zooming into the decimals of pi and seeing no numbers for a specific array of decimals: 3.14159ÄÄÄÄ265359... The Ä´s can´t be there: it´s a continuous sequence of decimal numbers. There is no break/”empty region” in the continuous decimals of pi just as there is no region of the size-range that can be empty of energymass.
In this chapter I´ve written something akin to “
first
there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification unless you consider that the size-axis of the size-time-diagram is infinite),
then
there was E=mc
2
,
then
there was energymass summoned into the smallest spaces available (available = considered to be within an event horizon and empty)”. This harkens back to previous lectures´ talk about “alien logic” (how exoplanets think). To have it make sense to our brains we use the time-distinctions “first, then and then” but the real distinction is not in time but in steps in a sequence of logic. In other words all the mentioned steps happened simultaneously to start the Big Bang: E=mc
2
was true as soon as there was spacetime, and as soon as there was that, energymass appeared as not to make the universe absurd (by it talking gibberish or it having an empty region like in fig. 6).
The end of the Big Bang
Telescopes observe that “space is being born” i.e. that the distances between clumps of energymass (galaxies) are getting larger, and at an accelerating pace too. Not only does the Hubble law state that an object a
million light
-
years
away would be receding from us at 21 km/sec and at double the distance twice the speed, but the law states that that speed (for example 21 km/sec a million light years away) is increasing. This is called accelerating cosmic expansion. It means that from our galaxy, when/if we look into the sky trillions of years in the future, we´d see no trace of any other galaxy let alone the cosmic microwave background (because their speeds have passed the speed of light and thus went beyond the event horizon). Once that object a million light years away from us which today is racing away at 21 km/sec reaches 299792 km/sec (the speed of light), it will pass from being within our event horizon to being outside our sphere of events.
This empties our universe or as Hitchens put it: “nothingness is coming”. Once that nothingness comes we have our starting point where we run through the logic of E=mc
2
–> “if it is mentioned it must exist/be summoned” (in order for the universe not to talk gibberish or the infinite size-range not to have a break in it) –> energymass begins as dense (because of relativity and because E=mc
2
is true everywhere simultaneously/equally).
We observe that nothingness (within event horizons) is coming, and beginning from nothingness there is unintuitive logic that has a predictive quality to it: the Big Bang should start dense. This theory works well with lecture 2´s proofs for that “there is more to Reality than can be represented” (the size-time-diagram is infinite) because size is essentially space, and space and time are intertwined into a single spacetime – hence: if size/space is infinite then time must be infinite too. In other words we have reoccurring Big Bangs interspersed along the time-axis of our size-time-diagram. As soon as a region bound by an event horizon becomes empty we have the universe´s no-nonsense-laws kicking in and E=mc
2
summons energymass (in the smallest sizes that are empty equally/simultaneously).
The sequence of consecutive Big Bangs´ beginnings (emptiness leading to energymass being summoned) and ends (accelerating cosmic expansion speeding things past a point´s event horizon and emptiness being summoned) are as infinite as the time-axis proved to be based on lecture 2´s proofs. Proving (in lecture 2) that spacetime is infinite fits perfectly with the reoccurring Big Bangs (when somethingness becomes emptiness and then emptiness summons somethingness).
There will in other words, between the beginning of a Big Bang and the end of that same Big Bang, be life within the conscious/human size-range (the different locations of that size already being infinitely many, see fig. 4).
Each size along the size-axis is defined as “3-dimensional infinite space” meaning there is infinitely much life with access to universal science (i.e. some version of this lecture-series), and within our region (bound by an event horizon) there is life between the beginning and end of Big Bangs. In addition I have hard to believe that a reproducing shape (and thus evolution) only occurs in only
one
size-range (the, for humans, knowable size-range) in an infinite size-range: there ought to be many sub-size-ranges as part of the infinite size-range where evolution occurs and can reach scientific knowledge. All life mentioned above, if they reach scientific understanding, would concur on the existential theory presented in these lectures (especially lecture 3 – the three pillars/foundations/ideas which together become a minimalist theory for why there is the infinite size-range of energymasspacetime in the first place).
This is not only exoplanet science – it is science between Big Bangs and it is science in regions of the size-axis far away (in size) from our knowable size-range. See fig. 7.
Summary
First we looked at Descartes’ ”thought exists” and ”the self exists”, claimed that it was two valid statements and pointed out the distinction between them. On the other side of the paper we wanted to represent anti-distinction (the opposite of distinction) defined as “that of which all is part” (Reality), and realized that since thinker/thought is stuck on the left side of the paper we can’t represent Reality. This is not only Kant’s “the thing is not the thing itself (the mental map is not the real territory)” but more importantly whatever cannot be taken to represent “that of which all is part” i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality.
All we know about Reality (atoms, humans, galaxies) fit into a size-time-diagram (every object has a size and a time), so the minimalist approach combining the above paragraph with this one is to use the first paragraph to prove that the size-time diagram has infinite
axes. This in turn leads to an existential theory which can be summed up as “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime” – and it has a predictive quality to it: somewhere in such an existence there would be a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape and thus we get reproduction/evolution.
So far we’ve looked at the theory of why size itself exists, why there is something rather than nothing – an existential theory beginning from certain truth and logically building its way up all the way to predicting evolution.
Part 2: Evolution
My explanation of evolution focuses on how important disease and bullying (power) was for evolution.
Power
means that
fish
were
fighting fish breeding more agressive fish = dinosaurs, then
wolfpacks with an alpha male.
But even before and after those eras in evolution the rule of power was in play.
In part one we had an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime (including the intertwinedness-separation-opposition and the time-axis with repeating Big Bangs perpendicular to the size-axis) that predicts a reproducing shape i.e. a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape: reproduction in an infinite size-range.
This infinite size-range predicts reproduction.
Part one was about why there is a sizescale of energymasspacetime: the answers are that the sizescale is infinite and that energymass is in spacetime. It predicts that there should be a reproducing shape: say that it is a triangle which gathers surrounding lines into a similar triangle – then it has reproduced itself. The products of this reproduction obey three rules: directly when there was reproduction three rules came into play, I´ve listed them below as 1, 2, 3 but they are not in order (they came simultaneously):
1:
There is life and death: those who survive survive and those who die are not in the game anymore. “The surviving survive”. It´s so simple – we see it in everyday life today. But everything in evolution will come back to these three rules so we might as well do the banal and bring them up.
So directly when there was a reproducing shape - so in our part of the size-range a DNA-strand which split in the middle and became two DNA-strands – the copy either survived or died.
2: The second rule is that the number of offspring has significance. That is to say: if you get one child or five children or ten children, there is a difference between those numbers – and in evolution it´s a benefit to have more children. One can also have zero children, and that is approximately like being dead.
Some would say that evolution´s meaning (the main task of life) is to make more offspring – that it´s the scientific meaning of life – Nature´s meaning: to reproduce. But I would answer that evolution makes more offspring (that´s reproduction) and making more offspring gives evolutionary benefits, but Nature itself does not care – it does not care about whether we nuke ourselves or not. There is no God that looks upon us and cares. Even reproduction becomes meaningless in the larger perspective. But in evolution it has significance whether one has zero offspring or ten offspring.
Rule number two (number of offspring matters) just as simple as rule number 1 (that there is life and death; that some live and some die).
The third rule that appered... – well all three rules appeared simultaneously directly when there was reproduction in this sizerange. The third rule is that:
3: There is mutation in every generation-shift. Things change. It doesn’t make perfect copies. Your child (if you have one) is not an exact copy of yourself or your wife – it’s a mutation; a change.
These three rules – 1: that there is life and death, the surviving survive. 2: That there are different nuances in the number of offspring. 3: That there is mutation in every generation-shift – these three rules came into play directly when the first reproduction occurred. We will return to these three rules over and over again; they are like laws of nature that like God says shall work on life directly when the first life reproduces itself. These laws of nature didn’t exist before the first life reproduced itself – they were not active then. They became active directly when there was reproduction.
These are abstract laws that we will manufacture, then we have the physical reality of that in a puddle of water a strand of DNA – a cell – made copies/offspring. Then viruses came into the game and injected its own DNA into the ordinary cells, that is to say: hijacked their reproductive system to create virus-offspring. If this would´ve continued the ocean would´ve been filled with only viruses, so there has to be some next step which made it so that our type of life survived. But the viruses added a 4
th
law (one of these abstract laws)
and that is: if you can hijack someone else’s reproductive system to create your own offspring; if you can inject your DNA into somebody else´s cell so that it creates viruses – I call this “power”. We will return to this word when we for example look at dinosaurs (they became bigger because the men killed each other to get the women whom make offspring). This power-principle was one that came after the three first ones.
The first cells reproduced and we had these three rules, then viruses came and injected their DNA and used “power” to produce more viruses. Then we get an immune-system which kills viruses i.e. protects the original organism´s reproductive system from being hijacked by viruses. So the immune-system evolved to take back the reproductive principle (2: the number of offspring matters); for the fact that one should retain the reproductive capability for oneself – so that no virus can take it over. So power has a lot to do with the number of offspring – principle 4 has a lot to do with principle 2.
We have multicellular organisms with immune-systems, we have viruses around them – and it´s an arms-race between that the viruses mutate to overcome the immune-system and the immune-system mutates to overcome the virus. Thus we have an evolutionary pressure on mutating the immune-system as much as possible as fast as possible (because the viruses mutate very quickly), and the best way to do that is to combine genes from two different organisms: a man and a woman. So sex has its beginning in viruses.
If this doesn´t make you feel comfortable contemplate this: the truth outweighs positive-thinking. But does one want to remove whatever spreads joy among people? Those who want to defeat the religious violence in the world (I think religion is the biggest unnecessary cause of hatred in the world) – one cannot defeat that without defeating all religiousness simultaneously. To want to defeat one part of religion but not the rest of it is like voting for the Republicans and Democrats simultaneously – it´s just unreal. Sadly one must remove the good to remove the evil. Meditation still remains and one can get a kind of anxietylessness from some thoughts still but in the big picture there are no reasons that support them anymore – it´s just a brain-trick that one does.
In our evolutionary story we had an immune-system which mutates, wants more mutations – we get two genders. Then men begin to war with each other (because, metaphorically speaking, women can produce offspring once a year while men can produce it every day – we have an imbalance; asymmetry). Why is it always men that start wars? It began with the first fish – we had multicellular life in our story so far, so they became a bit bigger, could swim around – we get fish: it´s easier to find food then and easier to move around. Directly when there were two genders there was one fish which evolved to use its teeth for killing other male fish. The first aggressor of course got the most offspring because there were no other men around. That´s why men go to war: they can produce offspring with so many women while a woman has no benefit from having 1000 men.
There´s a caveat to
this once we get to caveman tribes/wolf-packs where a woman secretly wants many men to provide resources to her child, but at least in the era between fish and dinosaurs the picture was simply based on asymmetric reproductive rates.
So then the male fish grow more aggressive, the child who is the biggest and has the sharpest teeth kills the other male fish, has the most offspring; and in the next generation, again: the child with the most aggression and biggest muscles gets the most offspring – that´s how we get to dinosaurs and T-rex. We had males competing/fighting with each other and that´s why T-rex is so large. That is, again, the power-principle: just like viruses took over the reproductive system from the first cells, T-rex takes away the reproductive system from his rivals by killing them. So this principle number 4 (power) lives on – it has caused/causes so much: it causes the first viruses, it causes T-rex, that fish become aggressive, that we get two genders (by viruses getting power – so we wanted to counter that power by immune-systems i.e. two genders).
These dinosaurs then, just like humans don´t seem to have (sarcasm), any concept of preserving natural resources – so they would´ve eaten up all their trees and not had any food left. But on our planet it seems to have been a meteor-strike which wiped them out, but on exoplanets i.e. overall in this evolutionary series of evolutionary pressures causing various principles (first the three first principles, then the 4
th
principle, immune-systems, two-genderedness, bigger
fish, fights between the fish, dinosaurs). The dinosaurs ate their natural resources and all large life dies - so only small rat-like/squirrel-like life-forms live on.
The trees grow back up – we get monkeys.
Groups tend to, in a fight – if it´s a group against an individual (one against many) – the group tends to win. So we monkeys form groups, fighting together for food against individualists. The individualists lost.
So we got this - or had it from the get-go (just like with the first aggressors) – instinct that makes us want to be highest in the hierarchy and thereby get all the women. Power again. But this time it´s a kind of human power – we saw power when viruses took over the reproductive systems, we saw power when dinosaurs outcompeted their rivals (the men), we see power when a bully goes to the top of the hierarchy, pushes down the other men – and the women want the bully´s resources (he has the most stuff) so they´re attracted to him, so he gets the most offspring – out of his offspring the one that is best at getting power the one that gets most offspring.
The reason for why the brain grew so fast during the past 100 000 years was because we used the brain to plan for how to climb upward in the hierarchy. The reproductive benefits coming from being
cchigh-status in the hierarchy were so great comparing to being low-status that this put great selection-pressure on bigger brains.
Now we basically have caveman living in hierarchical societies, we have kings, aristocrats and slaves – and that is how the world was 5000 years ago. The kings build monumental architecture (pyramids and such). Then someone focused on a random word – so someone focused on what we talked about in part 1: Reality (that of which all is part) and realized one cannot see it (because we should be part of it, or the other two proofs for not being able to see all there is to Reality) and thus they invented the word God: it is one, one cannot see it – we have the dawn of monotheism.
Someone random-focused on the word “soul/self” too and realized one gets less anxiety by making a distinction between the body
one sees in ones imaginations
(the body in one´s plans which tries to get reproduction, survival, resources, power, etc. – the three evolutionary principles that we listed in the beginning of this chapter). One sees a body in front of oneself which tries to make plans to get these things. But it is not that body which is “true” – instead it´s the observer which sees this body
which is “True” – and one cannot see that observer because one is it all the time. This was when they invented the Soul.
So the words God and Soul are legitimate concepts – then the church added a bunch of things like “the soul is immortal” and that “God said this and that to one or another person” (prophets and so on whom lied about a bunch of things). We also have the Golden Rule “do onto others like you would like to have them do onto you” which is a universal thing that they surely have on other planets: we are all humans, we want to be treated as of equal value. So from evolution we went from having cavemen to that someone came up with these
simple
thoughts, and then the church added a bunch of clutter to them. We thus have religions´ beginnings. The ideas of soul (the True self/observer which can´t be seen) and God (that of which all is part is One) are scientific ideas – so to some extent we have the beginnings of science.
Then people invented the telescope and microscope (to discover the sizes in the size-range), and we have a lot of knowledge and upbringing – but this is more intellectual history instead of biological history/evolution – but the intellectual has its foundation in the biological. So now we have gone through the whole story from the first cells to the birth of science.
I try to make this into a theory that is agreed upon by everyone; nowadays there are people who say that God (defined as a metaphysical mind) is needed to understand the theory of evolution – that there are mysteries within evolution. But I see no mysteries in this.
In a future book we will look at consciousness: which kind of emotional repertoire we have. We already said that we want power, we want reproduction, we want resources… But we will look closer at exactly which emotions exist and into which categories one can categorize them – and why they came about (what their evolutionary histories/pressures are). Which exact emotions? The feeling that one wants power, the feeling that one wants to help the flock, the feeling that one wants to plan how to get reproduction… - everything we do / the things that we do. For example I wrote this book because I´m at “war” with the enemies of civilization (“the enemy tribe”), because I want power out of selling this, reproduction out of getting status from having found a new way of describing some things, helping
countries ravaged by religion to become civilized (“helping flock-members”)…
These things drive me to do something intellectual. The emotional repertoire – that is to say: the diagrams about the brain – we can look at in the next book, because now we´ve looked at evolution and evolution created the brain so there is a lot of overlap.
Part 3:
The dawn of religion
No-one knows which kind of God emerged first (in protohuman minds). Was it the contemplation on Part 1 of this book (the oneness of Reality and it’s unrepresentability – focusing on the most all-encompassing concept)? Was there a war between two tribes/groups and to avoid soldiers from deserting one’s own group, the priest/king claimed to get his orders from a super-human invisible entity (which “looks better” than a mere human giving orders). Thinking
“they have a superhuman invisible commander while our group is just mere humans” is demoralizing for the group believing that the enemy has something mystical super-human communicating with their leadership. This kind of god is a tool of war. Or was the first God invented in dog-brain sized brains where a simple cortical circuit (the assotiations: the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) lessened anxiety.
We are after-all craving for the approval of “the hierarchical top”, we fear it... we have all kinds of emotions toward it and it can be imagined to love me, to dictate procedures like prayers to me, etc. It’s such a simple cortical circuit to define the hierarchy’s top as “that of which all is part (Reality)” and say that it loves me. That’s basically three concepts (hierarhical top (Reality) protecting me) – and it alliviates anxiety and gets us through dark nights of the soul. For the simple reason that it feels good to activate that circuit we try to “drug ourselves” by activating it over and over, emphasizing our belief in it, teaching it to everybody. The “hierarchical top (defined as Reality) protects me”-emotion
is one of those good feelings that we can activate at will. When we genetically engineer super-positive feelings to be activated by words, those new animals will propably activate their best emotions like a drug-addict seeks drugs – but they can activate it with words.
The circuitry is simple enough and panic attacks are common enough that I think everyone activates that “...protects/loves me”-circuitry during their life-time. Some choose to call it “belief in God”, others “the hierarchical top (defined as that of which all is part) protects me” and others don’t use any words for it because it is as unnoticable as digestion – something that naturally occurs in certain circumstances and one doesn’t need to be arrogant or proud of having that circuitry because it’s like 3-4 concepts (memorizing 4 concepts whom’s associations make us feel better is not a big feat).
Whichever type of God came first is lesser of a question, though, than: is heaven the same thing? Can “heaven” (and “hell”) be interpreted in a way that it makes sense? Heaven is obviously not a location in the sizerange (we don’t move in the sizerange when we die), so is heaven outside the entire theory (and thus “outside” (though this thing has no outside) that of which all is part)? No. Heaven may be synonomous to being good, and not some location in the diagram.
Maybe heaven is what the future genetically engineered super-happy animal will be in all the time.
Summary
Now that we know the three-pillar existential theory (like infinitely many extraterrestrials in infinite space thinks about it), we’ve got the beginning of evolution with a tiny DNA-strand (first reproduction sparking the three first evolutionary rules (1,2,3) and then the 4
th
(power). At the same time we see a continuum all the way to understand religions.
Since the infinitely many extraterrestrials are like us – they share the same logical evolutionary principles in sets following one another along time in a triangle-shape because increasing complexity is shown along the triangle.
It’s not like I don’t sometimes focus on the sentence “top of the hierarchy (defined as that of which all is part) loves and protects me” (“belief in God” in religious language).
Aliens can also prioritize what to focus on; what to take more off and what one wants to take less of. Aliens “judge” us based on principles like maximum happiness for all (animals, all humans), “do onto others like you’d want them do to yourself”. These are simple universal rules that aliens follow to maximize happiness in an otherwise brutal dog-eat-dog world.
What’s worth noticing
in this whole book
is the existential theory which predicts a tiny DNA-strand is more interesting because it is HOW God created the universe, or if you prefer: you remove God and the existential theory rests firmly on its three pillars.
To me, the core of religion seems to be different emotions to and from the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”). The context of course is hierarchical animals which were preceded by group-dwelling animals (we talked about this in part 2 of this book: evolution).
Having a simplistic association of concepts (merely the 3-4
concepts: hierarchical top – defined as that of which all is part – protects/loves/etc me) gives a relief of anxiety, fear, loneliness etc. Having the more complex picture of the same thing – the context surrounding it – makes the whole thing mundane because we realize that “hierarchical top” refers to our wolf-like nature and “that of which all is part” comes as an infinite sizerange.
As I’ve said I agree with the words Soul (true self vs false self; observer of the body in one’s plans vs. the body in one’s plans) and God (defined as “that of which all is part” and synonymous with Reality). But Heaven is a tricker question – what does “heaven” mean? It is obviously no unknown size-range in the infinite sizerange nor a location in space, nor can it be “outside” [that of which all is part]. I acknowledge that believing in heaven gives the same kind of fear-relief as “the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) protects me”, but like I said: I have trouble not being complex and analyzing “the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) protects me” (putting it in it’s sizescalian and evolutionary context), and with “Heaven” I have even more trouble because the single simplest thought ruins that idea. If I were to try to “believe in Heaven” I’d have to focus so hard that my mind doesn’t wander to even the most closely associated or easily retrieved scientific concept (because that destroys heaven). I do believe in doing good out of solidarity, and that doing good will reak its rewards for the millions of coming generations.
So to me Holy Books tend to contain only the following: different emotions to and from the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) , scientific truths like that Reality cannot be seen, heaven & hell and rituals.
Other than material pleasures like humor, I think we can find
condolence
in that being something in nothing with a bleak evolutionary story is more grim than we feel it to be; the truth hurts but not as much as we can feel. We are worse off than we realize and we should be happy we don’t fully feel our meaningless depressing situation which is made sense of in an unintuitive (and thus gives the feeling of confusion) way
(I’m thinking mainly of the three-PILLAR existential theory).
In Holy Books I also tend to find what I’ll relate to you in an anecdote: I was sitting in the back-seat of a car on vacation in a country which I had fallen in love with, whilst winter was raging in my home country. The driver of the car asked if I wanted a hazelnut croissant. I thought what was more important of a topic was for me to whine about that I don’t ever want to leave this country, I want my vacation to last longer, I don’t want to go back to the darkness and snow. So I said “I don’t want to go back to Sweden 🙁 !!” and the driver asked “what does this have to do with the hazelnut croissant?”. I put my answer in a joke: “the connection between the two topics is very deep and significant, but it’s hard to explain: it’s mysterious – and that’s religion.” I tend to find, to say the least, unintuitive associations between concepts in holy books (not meant as jokes).
About Heaven again:
So true justice is impossibly unattainable, which means that this world is inherently unjust?
Yes it's unjust and that seems quite obvious. The other day I heard two people talking: "life can't be this shitty without there being a heaven - there must be a heaven to make life worthwhile", I didn't say anything because their illusion makes them happy but I was thinking: "I am SURE there is no heaven and I can PROVE it scientifically. I even know that the true nature of the situation is worse than we feel it to be (intellectually only can we realize exactly how bleak human life is (and my book is to a large extent so meaninglessness-giving and depressing that one can make jokes out of it)). The only reason to keep living is out of solidarity and because science can create an animal which is 100% happy throughout its lifetime (maybe 100 years from now)."
So heaven was just the divine carrot at the end of the rainbow which acts as a counterweight to the stick that is life?
Do I believe in God, Heaven, The Day of Judgement, etc? As much as I believe that “the top of the hierarchy (defined as “that of which all is part”) protects me” – I use it sometimes. But then if I analyze it, it kindof breaks down: into a donkey with a carrot regarding heaven:
I’m trying to translate all religious concepts (and did well with God and Soul) into scientific language. I can’t do Heaven as a scientific translation except by using this donkey picture – I’m sorry!
The only hope I have of there being a heaven for anyone in the future is that humanity genetically engineers a super-happy animal.
I did well by translating
Soul into scientific language (the body with the plans and the see’er of the body in the plans) and I did well with God (that of which all is part) because it’s one, it can’t be seen,
it’s the cause of everything...
But with Heaven I really can’t do any better than this donkey-picture, and I’m sad about it. I still use the concept Heaven but in the religious way, I don’t use it in the scientific way because it just gets me sad (but it’s funny at the same time).
I “believe in Heaven” in the religious way, but I don’t “believe in Heaven” in the scientific way. Humans are capable of such cognitive dissonance.
I think "heaven" is only valid if someone is watching us (to determine whether we sin or not; go to heaven or hell), and needing that surveilance is the same as being a flock-animal. Heaven thus comes from us needing a flock (being used to someone watching us).
Meta-commentary on this book
If the purpose of this book is to unify across religious-differences and build more agreement and thus friendship/trust in the world, then the overall structure of having three parts should remain the same no matter how the course/book is presented:
first
the existential theory because it predicts that there ought to be a tiny DNA-strand somewhere,
then
evolution (because it’s a continuation off of the existential theory/part 1),
then
other thoughts like the circuitry related to religion.
If we focus on ways to teach part 1 of this book (the existential theory), one has three options:
begin from Descartes’ certain truth (I think and I am) and make small logical steps all the way up to anti-distinction (that of which all is part) and how distinction vs. anti-distinction –opposition proves that the sizerange is infinite.
begin from Nothingness (spacetime) which is there “a priori” (needs no prior justification) and is emptier than we can imagine it as. Then state that that spacetime is non-absurd/non-bizarre i.e. that for example the case is not that at one moment 1+1=2, then 1+1=5, then 1+1=241, then 1+1=2 again. 1+1=2 is a law of nature inherent in spacetime, and so is Pythagoras’ theorems about triangles (a triangle is not a sphere because the universe is non-absurd). The laws of nature state
d
so far already hint at Existence (energymass) but E=mc
2
is a law of nature that certainly explicitly requires Energymass. Where is Energymass first summoned? In the smallest spaces, thus we get a dense Big Bang throughout the entire sizerange.
begin with stating the three pillars of the existential theory: (1) an infinite sizerange (2) of energymasspacetime (3) in intertwinedness-separation-opposition.
Including all three ways to begin should convince everyone of that this world-view is valid.
The way I go about teaching this course is universal, and the latest thing I’ve noticed about my course is that the number 3 repeats in many places: there are three ways to start the course (Certain Truth, Nothingness, 3 Pillars of the Existential Theory), the existential theory has 3 pillars, the first evolutionary rules (before power/viruses emerge) are 3.
Extraterrestrials would notice the number 3 popping up all the time too.
The diagram
This is the logotype infinitely many extraterrestrials, basing it off of science, paint on their T-shirts, caps and other merchendize. We’ve already talked about the infinite sizerange and the evolutionary theory (the square and the triangle), but the additional third part aliens would add to the diagram is their diagrams of the brain: the different categories (large or small, 3 of them) of hard-wired circuits: homeostatic circuits, social/external-circuits and circuitry that gets activated when the two other categories of circuits aren’t active (these are gathering resources, curiosity (expanding one’s world-view), planning how to get power, planning how to get reproduction).
In our planning-system we have serotonine (the red line) and dopamine (the blue line).
The number 3 is a magic number because
there are 3 ways to begin this universal course (nothingness, certain truth or 3 pillars of the existential theory), there are 3 pillars to the existential theory, there are 3 first evolutionary principles and there are 3 categories of evolved brain circuits (social/external, homeostatic and cortex-idle).
3 is the
most
universal digit.
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen, Sweden
War and Boredom
– Religious wars continue because this book isn’t known enough, and it is not known because it is “boring” i.e. causes feelings of meaninglessness, depression etc.
Author
yonis
Posted on
31/12/2016
21/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on War and Boredom
2 Nobel Prizes
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/Untitled-Project2.mp4
Author
yonis
Posted on
12/12/2016
14/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on 2 Nobel Prizes
V 2-4
V2-4
Author
yonis
Posted on
08/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on V 2-4
Existential theory (2)
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/We-are-evolution-2.mp4
Author
yonis
Posted on
07/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Existential theory (2)
Summary in video (10 min)
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/Untitled.mp4
Author
yonis
Posted on
05/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Summary in video (10 min)
Latest version of my book
Warrior of Boredom
The title of this book refers to that it is hard to get through this book. The reason why this new science (that I present in this book) hasn’t been discovered until I did is because it’s depressing, anxiety-giving and BORING. But the question is: does everyone agree on it? If they do, that changes the Israel-Palestine-conflict where the parties of God are vetoing “the holy land”. Religion is the biggest cause for hate in the world, as Hitchens said. My book defeats religion – it’s a minimalist theory that works completely – a theory of Everything: existence (why there is size itself), evolution – even thoughts on the methodology for doing politics.
Philosophy = honor,
but anxiety/depression and boredom. Religion = no honor,
but less anxiety/depression and less boredom.
The big picture, accounting of everything, conflicts with certain positive-thinking brain-tricks and with our bias toward ignoring some negative/depressing aspects of nature.
The first part of this book will be a more detailed discourse about the following paragraph:
Descartes proved that there is distinction (between thinker and thought) - what's the opposite of distinction: "that of which all is part" (Reality). Since we are stuck in Descarte's thinker and thought-realm we can't see Reality, nor can "whatever" not represent it, meaning that there's more to it than can be contemplated/represented. Since all objects we know of fit in a size-time-diagram, this argument must mean that there is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram - and this in turn leads us to an existential theory (a theory about why there is size in the first place).
I realize that’s too fast of a paragraph to convince everyone and thus I want to convince the readers of this book to be warrios or boredom and see all my arguments.
Lecture 1
Descartes
One of the aims of this course is to get EVERYONE to agree so that they have the same associations between scientific concepts.
There is no other proper way to accomplish this goal than by starting with certain truth, which was found by Descartes in the 1600s. He lived in a time where they believed in demons, Gods etc. so he postulated a thought experiment where he assumed an almighty demon was fooling him in everything he could be fooled in: what would remain as certain truth – what could he not be fooled in?
If he was being fooled, where would still be a “he” (or self) there to be fooled, meaning that the self certainly exists. A self is necessary for a self to be fooled.
Descartes had thus concluded his own existence.
Being fooled is thinking – thus thought exists. “There is thought” Descartes concluded as certain truth. The word “fooling” represents a thought-process.
Descartes found the starting-position for any inquiry about truth: we can know certainly that thinker and thought exists.
Distinction exists (a logical conclusion from the above)
Looking at what we´ve found as certain truth so far “from above” (meta), we can take the next logical step – adding a third factoid to our 2-statement (A and B above) starting position: that there is distinction (
between
thinker and thought). The fact that thinker and thought are two separate entities concluded to be certain truth
s
through two
different
logical pathway
s
lets us conclude that “distinction exists”
. There are what Chinese philosophy calls “the ten thousand things” (referring to the world) – there are at least two (three if we include “distinction” as th
e third thing) certain entities, and empirically we know there are “ten thousand things” (not taking the number 10 000 literally but just referring to multiplicity).
First universal diagram
We can draw the thinker and thought and distinction between them as two dots with a line between them on a piece of paper (fig. 1).
Now we have something all religions agree on
– we´ve drawn up ideas and associations between them. Everyone ought to have the same associations (explanatory thoughts) between the concepts we´ve looked at so far.
We have, if you will – in figure 1 – a universal diagram.
Reality
We have the capability to conglomerate many separate entities under the rubric of a single category. If we use this capability to collect the “ten thousand things” (distinct entities) we´ve found so far into a single thing, we ought to give that thing a word/name. Its definition can be “that of which all is part” and “the opposite of separation/distinction”. I will use the word Reality to refer to this all-encompassing thing.
In lecture 2 I will present three proofs for that “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, but for now we can draw (adding to figure 1) a dot with a cross over it – the cross to symbolize that the dot itself is a false representation of Reality because we (the observer/self/thinker) should be part of that dot. See fig 2.
Thinking about what we´ve got so far
Thinking about what we´ve got so far (fig. 2) it’s a bundle of associations which make universal inter-religious (all religions agree on it) knowledge with both words and pictures.
In the next lecture I present why the line in fig 2 (see fig 3) represents the opposition/antagonism/disagreement/contraposition/divergence/variance between the two sides of the paper; between “thinker and thought” on one side of the paper and “Reality (that of which all is part; the opposite of separation)” on the other side of the paper.
Worth noting now is that the left side of the paper represents separation/distinction whilst the right side of the paper represents the opposite of separation/distinction – both are legitimate ideas: thinker and thought – and distinction – is certain truth based on Descartes and we all know which idea we refer to when talking about the all-encompassing [that of which all is part] Reality.
In the next lecture we will talk about why the line in fig. 3 makes it so that we can´t see Reality – I will present three proofs like in a crime case, and we will talk about what we can see if we can´t see Reality.
Making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far
1
See fig. 1 again: it´s our starting-point and the thinking that occurs in it happens in Descartes “realm of mind”; it is the mind´s realm (the left side of the paper) in which the thinking happens, and one thing we talk about is Reality on the right side of the paper in fig 3. Since the line in fig. 3 represents both the legitimacy of the ideas on both sides of the paper, and simultaneously the opposition between separation/distinction (on the left side of the paper) and [the opposite of separation/distinction] on the right side of the paper. That opposition is important and I will show its significance in lecture 2.
2
Starting from Descartes realm (of if you will: assuming that all we know is what we know for certain), we have the capability to state that there is a single Reality of which all is part – so even though we see separation we must grant that that separation (all entities) fits into a category we call Reality. There is a unifying whole even though the human mind (Descartes realm) is limited in its ways when it tries to contemplate Reality.
Not only is there the map-territory distinction (which will be presented as one out of three proofs in lecture 2), but there is also a more fundamental opposition between distinction and its opposite (there is a more fundamental opposition between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3). Not only are we stuck in the map-territory-distinction-realm but we also can conclude that no representation (regardless of the mind) is equal to Reality (on a more fundamental level than the map-territory-problem).
Representation is done in the brain using neurons and in a computer using electrons, but there is no reason why the most distant atom or quark couldn´t be proposed to be a symbol for [that of which all is part] – and even in that brainless scenario we will see in lecture 2 that “that of which all is part cannot be represented”. The map-territory-distinction is just proof/evidence number two in lecture 2 (for that we cannot see Reality and thus, since we do see/represent something, there must be more to Reality than can be represented i.e. the size-time-diagram (presented in lecture
2) is infinite along both axes.
Proof 3 in lecture 2 removes the brain from the equation and still proves that there is more to Reality than can be seen/represented/symbolized (using any means/any method – even without a brain), and since some representation is obviously (since we know that there are minds) possible, there must be more than can be represented/contemplated i.e. the size-axis is infinite and the time-axis is infinite in that two-axis diagram.
3
Both sides of the paper in fig. 3 are legitimate ideas. But still they are opposites (separation on one side and the opposite of separation on the other side). How can two derived-from-logic sides of the paper be opposites but still both be legitimate?
Usually opposition – like between Democrats and Republicans – means that one is right and the other is wrong; they can´t both simultaneously be right: you can´t meaningfully vote for both parties at the same time.
The case is different between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3: both sides are right and they are opposites.
There is a single Reality and there is multiplicity in distinction.
What does this mean? That there is more to the size-time-diagram than anything could represent – any representation fails (you can think of some
examples/suggestions for how to represent [that of which all is part]/[the opposite of separation]) – and thus the axes on the size-time-diagram are infinite. This is a hither to unpresented fact in science – it is new science: some of the best scientists ignorantly believe that the size-range is limited/finite.
4
We have quite a few associations and symbols in fig. 3 which must be agreed upon, and here I´m using the word “must” in the sense that “by the rules of logic X must be true”. Other civilizations throughout the infinitely many galaxies there are use the exact same ideas (but in a different language) and have the same associations between them (that there are infinitely many galaxies is derived from that the size-axis in the size-time-diagram is infinite). There is distinction as the third truth to be added to Descartes two fundamental truths (thinker and thought exist), and all that is opposed to (on the other side of the paper in fig. 3) to the all-encompassing Reality which is defined using at least two definitions: that of which all is part and the opposite of separation.
I´m tri-lingual but I write the same ideas and associate them in the same ways no matter which language I write in – its universal science beginning from certain truth. On other planets that have civilizations my writings in this book ought to match up quite near to the writings creating the same lecture series based on universal science that I´m creating
– “alien”/exo-planet
lecture series proceed, beginning from certain fact, through logical steps as I do.
5
[Thinker and thought] (certain truth) and thus distinction/separation are associated through negation/opposition to the right side of the paper in figure 3: Reality. The left side is not the right side just like separation is not its opposites. Both being legitimate ideas, though, connects them in the way that thinker and thought (and all other distinct entities) are in the category Reality.
Even though Reality and distinction are opposites, distinction dwells in (as a sub-entity within the category) Reality.
The associations between the left and right sides of the paper in figure 3 are both united through the notion “opposition” and through the notion that distinction is inherent in Reality (Reality being the opposite of distinction
because we have all-encompassing and its opposite: composite parts).
6
It is certainly true that all is part of a single Reality; but it is equally true that in every observation there is an observer and hence distinction (between thinker and thought). We see separate entities is as true as that the self that we are is not in front of us – but everything we see (thought/object) is in front of us.
That is evidence 1 in lecture 2 (not a proof, but a mere suggestion/evidence that [that of which all is part cannot be observed] and thus there is more to Reality than our concept of [infinitely much].
All we know about Reality has two properties: a size and a time. Size and time are two axes on a diagram, and thus all we know fits into the size-time-diagram (every object or location in space has a size and time).
There is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram because all suggested representors for Reality fail
(for three reasons taken up in lecture 2).
7
All
bundles of associations in this chapter “making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far”
are written in order to create some universal brain structures (universal because
science is the same everywhere (on all exo-planets), and their brains make the same associations too eventually). It´s not some random bundle of associations nor did I randomly present random ideas.
I assume the brain structure created by understanding this book is a replica of something derived from science; a replica of brain structures on the infinitely many other civilization-bearing planets. It´s a universal “ideology”, if you will.
Everyone has a possibility of sharing it in agreement – and future lectures will add a whole lot of complexity to it; agreement tends to build friendship so study is a way of bringing more peace to the world.
Once the full world-view is presented throughout this book, it´s a way of pacifying the world.
8
We have two brain-halves: one linguistic and one visual. So far we´ve both drawn pictorial representations and connected words – both brain-halves have been working. The connections across corpus collosum (which sits between the brain-halves and connects them) that connect a linguistic narrative/explanation to the pictorial representations are one day found in all humans thanks to science. Our brains are becoming more as science has a propensity to make them be.
This course itself, since it begins with certain truths and builds upon it logically, is a universal course (to the best of my ability).
The brain cells that constitute the negation (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 3) or opposition are not the same kind of cells (they are inhibitory neurons) that connect thinker with though as both being certain truths (but the thinker is not the thought and thus has inhibitory cells making that brain-structure work too
(what you are is not in front of you;
what you are is not visible).
Since both Reality and [what you are]/self/observer/thinker are invisible the brain might erroneously and spontaneously try to associate them, so a brain-structure is needed to inhibit that association (and replace it with a more complex explanation). That spontaneous but erroneous association is something all thinking animals throughout the universe evolved to do, and the inhibition of it through culture/civilizing/science is universally available within complex enough civilizations throughout the universe.
As you can see the brain structures responsible for doing this thing are quite complex, but also universal and thus accessible to all humans, and predictably will someday be in all humans (fostering agreement, thus friendship, thus peace).
Lecture 2
Perceive, apprehend, notice are synonyms for our representing ability, but I will use the word “see” or “observe” to refer to all of these. The goal of this lecture is to prove the statement “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, Reality being defined as “that of which all is part”. In other words: we cannot see Reality, and thus there is more to Reality than even can be contemplated (i.e. infinitely much).
I will build this lecture like a criminal court case: I will present three proofs for that we cannot see Reality i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated i.e. (since we can contemplate anything (right or wrong)) Reality is infinite.
Since anything/everything we know about Reality has some size and time, it fits into a size-time-diagram. See fig. 4.
In fig. 4 size is represented along the vertical axis and time along the horizontal axis. The objects humans see in everyday life (from the horizon to a single cell as one “pixel” in our visual field) are marked in “the human range”.
See fig 5.
In fig. 5 I´ve drawn the same diagram as in fig. 4 but this time with infinity-symbols in each corner of the squareical size-time-diagram. Two infinite axes become a square.
Proof number 3 in our “court case” for proving that the size-time-diagram (Reality) is infinite has us imagine the unobservable separatenessless Reality and ask whether there is a maximum or minimum size to/in it (a maximum/minimum being separateness while we are talking about the opposite of separation). This is again to confirm that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes.
The line we drew in fig. 4 was for separating the two sides of the paper; opposing “thinker and thought” (distinction) with its opposite: one all-encompassing non-distinction Reality. That opposition-line is what this lecture is about since it proves that the two sides of the paper are
separate/opposing realms and we are stuck in one realm as long as we are observers (because observation is separation/distinction (thinker and thought)).
Proving that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes is new science because it poses the question: what happened before the Big Bang (14 billion years ago), and it presents one pillar of our existential theory: that each size is the reason for each next and previous size, and the size axis is infinite, meaning the “beginning” of the relationship between sizes keeps retreating into infinity the more we contemplate the range of the size axis.
When I presented fig. 4 for the first time I drew a cross over the dot symbolizing Reality for the plain reason that we (as observers) should be part of that dot, and by the very nature of us being separate (and the dot representing the opposite of separation) we should draw a cross over it symbolizing that we cannot see it.
The main proof though is that even if all observers were dead there´d still be, inherent and fundamental in nature, the opposition between distinction and distinction´s opposite (the two sides of the paper in fig. 4). The line is an opposition-line and it is more fundamental than being dependent on humans/observers – it refers to all representation whether it’s using/including humans or not. I am, in other words, not talking about the map-territory distinction (which symbolizes that humans have mental maps and not the real world per se; like Kant said: we have “the thing” and not “the thing itself”). Proof 2 – the opposition-line between the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 – is not subjective: it is true that we live with the map-territory-distinction but even if I died there´d still be separate things (chairs separate from cups), that kind of separation is not dependent on me/observers. Simultaneously the flipside of the coin (the other side of the paper in fig. 4) is true too: all is one single Reality (the opposite of separation). Proof 2, in other words, should not be interpreted as signifying the map-territory distinction (human subjectivity) but instead a fundamental opposition in the universe.
If we do not see Reality, then what do we see? Everything we see fits into the size-time-diagram, and since the opposition-line in fig. 4 shows that there is a fundamental rule that states, in 3 different proofs, that Reality is infinite / there is more than can even be contemplated / there is more than even non-subjective representation can represent.
Proof number 1 is really weaker than a “proof” – it´s more like evidence. It wouldn´t hold up in a court but it is a way of stating what the other proofs too point towards. Proof 1 is what we saw when presenting figure 4: any dot representing Reality is an incorrect representation because the observer should be part of the object – the thinker should be part of the thought. It denies Cartesian separation and thus is untrue, meaning that anything we draw on the right side of the paper in fig. 4 is incorrect.
We can contemplate anything: we can speculate about what´s smaller than quantum physics, or even what´s smaller than that, etc. into infinity. We are probably wrong, but any contemplation/representation counts as a contemplation – and since we know that, whether right or wrong as our contemplations may be, there is more to Reality than can be contemplated, it follows that there must be infinitely much to Reality. Since all we know about Reality fits into a size-time-diagram, the minimalist approach is to state that it´s the size-time-diagram that is infinite.
This warrants two new words: the knowable/known size-range and the infinite size-range. The knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range. Since Einstein unified space (size) and time, one cannot be infinite without the other one being the same. Science today doesn´t know whether there was a “before” to the Big Bang or not (whether time was created at the Big Bang), but now we know that the Big Bang is just an event on an infinite time axis. In a future lecture we will talk about how/why the Big Bang recreates (happens over and over).
We talked about universal diagrams (and universal brain-structures) in lecture 1. The size-time-diagram is one major universal diagram. A lot of detail can be added to it because all fields of science fit into it. The infinity-symbols on each axis of the squareical diagram are drawn, based on science, on exo-planets with advanced enough civilizations.
This lecture is about proving that [that of which all is part] (the opposite of separation) i.e. Reality cannot be observed/represented, and that this fact is true irrespective of whether we are observers or dead, and applying this to the size-time-diagram (which gets its infinity-symbols into the squareical diagram).
Proof number 2 (the main proof) is the oppositional approach between Reality and distinction, and it is not subjective because Reality and Reality´s opposite exist even if we were dead. Proof number 3 is about imagining (even though no imagination is it) Reality as a big gray (because energymass is white and spacetime is black) solid, in which we know no observer should be (because observation is separation) – does it have separation i.e. a biggest and a smallest size? No, because such distinctions are not in the opposite of distinction (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 4).
I´ve mentioned universal associations in the brain / exo-planet science, so talking about the size-time-diagram we can add more universal notions to it: why did I draw upwards on the size axis as larger and downward as smaller? Why is the time-axis horizontally drawn instead of vertically? The diagram works even if we would define the vertical axis as time and the horizontal axis as size – so why do we draw size vertically and time horizontally? Is it universal i.e. on other planets or just a human convention like writing from left to right in English-speaking countries and right to left in Arabic-speaking countries?
Evolution has it so that during the history of science telescopes look upward and microscopes look downward. This would be the case on other planets too: they turn their heads upward to see the large and downward (onto a table) to see the small; the opposite can´t be true on any planet. Thus we get the size axis´ standard (of upward being larger) from evolution / the history of science. I use the word “standard” because it comes from evolution rather than being more fundamentally hard-wired into the universe such as the fact that the size-time-diagram is a square with infinity symbols. That the size-time-diagram is a square is not a standard – it is something stronger than that. The fact that we represent time on the vertical axis (and upward as larger) comes from a weaker source: tradition (even though that same tradition is true on all planets; evolution, in this regard, happens the same on all planets that end up with civilizations).
We thus have added standards or weak conventions (derived from history) in addition to having strong diagrams like the size-time-diagram being a square. The distinction between the two is made based on science and is thus made on exo-planets.
Scientists are looking for exo-planets that bear civilizations. If the size-range is infinite – as we´ve proven that it is – then each particular size (like the human range in fig. 5) is infinite too; if the largest is infinitely large then there is, considering the size of a human, an infinite distance in any direction that that human could find itself in. This makes civilizations on other planets a must, not an assumption. The known/knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range, and within the known size-range there is a range in which evolution occurs (between the smallest cells and the biggest organisms), and since we´ve proven that there are infinitely many objects within/of that size-range, then there must be infinitely many locations in which evolution occurs.
In the next lecture we will bind together the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 (distinction and distinction´s opposite; “thinker and thought” opposing Reality) with E=mc
2
(energymasspacetime) and with the infinity of the size-time axes, into a single existential theory which is a rival to “God created earth in 6 days…” The existential theory is a minimalist account for why there is a sizescale in the first place, and why there is something (energymass) rather than nothing (spacetime). It reminds me of this passage: “HITCHENS: In other words, as the great physicist Laplace said when he demonstrated his working model (his orrery, as it’s called) of the solar system to the emperor and Napoleon said, “Well I see there’s no God in this system,” and Laplace said, “Well, Your Majesty, it works without that assumption.””
In this chapter I´ve presented three proofs for that the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in it i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated; we do represent something but however we choose to represent (even representations that can be proposed as thought-experiments if we were dead) we do not represent Reality i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality. Are there any counter-arguments saying that the size-time-diagram is finite? I built this lecture like a court case and I´d like to hear the opposing side. There are no arguments that oppose what I´ve proven so far.
Lecture 3
E=mc
2
E=mc
2
as an equation is only used in relativistic scenarios such as very high speed or very high energy, but since speed is a continuum the equation is true at slower speeds. There is a difference between the equation being applicable (being needed while solving equations) and it being true; it is always true everywhere but it is not needed for equations except in special scenarios.
An example of the equation being true everywhere and always is this: nuclear power-plants turn mass (kilograms) into energy (joule), so that if you input 1 kg of uranium-mass you get out 99.9999 kg of waste products – some of the mass turned into energy which lights our light-bulbs. The atoms that lost some weight (that weight was converted into energy) are atoms just like other kinds of atoms, for example in autumn leaves. If you´d drop leaves into the core of the sun, the sun´s nuclear furnace would turn mass in the leaves into energy (light). Hence all objects are subject to the E=mc
2
-rule, which states that energy (E) equals mass (m). This warrants the word energymass because they are no longer two distinct things – they are but different manifestations of the same thing. In the brain
energymass should be a single idea whilst the concepts “energy and mass” refers to two different forms of a single idea.
Verbs and adjectives tend to refer to energy (shining, running, etc.) while nouns refer to mass (body, tree, etc.) E=mc
2
states that the two (verbs/adjectives and nouns) are together in a single equation. Although only applicable in relativistic scenarios (the role of relativism becomes close to zero in everyday human events, except that our light-bulbs shine because mass turns into energy and the sun can makes leaves into light), E=mc
2
is in a “philosophical” sense true everywhere and always just like Pythagoras’s theorem about triangles remains “philosophically true” even where there are no physical triangles. You wouldn´t say 1=1 is not true in empty space just because there are no objects there to count as “1”.
In addition to energymass being a single concept (and not two distinct ones), spacetime gets added into the mix by the c
2
-part of the equation. c is the speed of light (km/h) and thus a distance (space) over time – spacetime! Energymass (E=m) and spacetime (c
2
) should in the brain be represented by a single idea which we can call energymasspacetime. This harkens back to the previous lectures about Reality, which is a synonym for energymasspacetime. Einstein invented the equation E=mc
2
and thus unified in it energymass with spacetime – and synonyms for energymass are “existence” or “1” while synonyms for spacetime are “non-existence”, “emptiness”, “nothing” and “zero”. There is no more to be considered regarding Reality than energymasspacetime; energymasspacetime involves everything (energymass) and nothing (spacetime) so there is nothing more to be considered/added to Reality – Reality is energymasspacetime; everything is included into Reality once we have defined Reality as energymasspacetime.
The Existential Theory
Each culture seems to have a creation myth (such as genesis) – the creation of the cosmos/world/Reality is something humans have invented hypotheses for during millennia. The stories answer the question “why are we here?”
The true answer is unintuitive. First of all: why is there any particular size? What justifies, say, the size of a molecule? The answer is: the smaller and the larger (the rest of the size-range). Atoms justify a molecule and a molecule exhibits a place for atoms to live in: justifies atoms. Humans need an earth to dwell on (the earth is larger) and humans are made of cells (cells are smaller). Each size bears a relationship upon each other size – the smaller justify the larger and the larger justify the smaller. Since the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all four corners of the square (because of the proof where we had two sides of a paper), the size-range is infinite i.e. the pattern of justification between/amongst sizes continues into the infinitely large and infinitely small. What the ancients called “the first cause” keeps retreating into infinity size-wise the more we contemplate it. The size-range is like a fractal: you can keep zooming in or out infinitely much, and the question “why is there this particular object that I see” has its answer in the relationship between all the sizes: justification. Infinite justification is the reason why there is a size-range at all. But there is more that is needed for a full-fledged existential theory: two more factors play their roles.
Spacetime is emptier than we can imagine/represent it. We (and all representeurs) are energymass and thus are the opposite of spacetime. We could let a piece of empty space represent spacetime, but as soon as we use energymass (such as our brains) to do so, we´ve lost the truly empty nature of
spacetime: it is unimaginably empty. Any bundle of neurons, no matter how we wire it, is still the opposite of what they want to represent when they want to present us with spacetime. It is therefore useful to have two concepts for spacetime: (1) our simplest intuition of spacetime and (2) additional defining language explaining that spacetime is emptier than (1). This is how exoplanet civilizations would wire their brains regarding the concept “spacetime” too, just because it’s the most accurate science they can manage.
Just like energy and mass are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon, energymass and spacetime are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon. What does it mean for spacetime to be bundled together with (intertwined with) energymass? Everything exists as/in/because of nothing; 1 exists in 0; energymass and spacetime are together in the E=mc
2
-equation. Where could energymass/existence exist? In nothingness. Just like sizes justify one another, spacetime justifies energymass.
The last question that remains, after we have justification between sizes in an infinite size-range, and that all points in the size-time-diagram are made of energymasspacetime (and energymass is justified by it being in spacetime), is the objective fact that there both is a single Reality (the right side of the paper) and there´s its opposite: distinction (between, say, thinker and thought).
The existential theory builds on three “pillars”/fundamental ideas:
An infinite sizescale,
Energymasspacetime as in the equation E=mc
2
Distinction between distinction itself and distinction´s opposite (see fig. 1, 2, 3):
Between distinction (the left side of the paper, our 2 certain truths: I exist and there is thought) and Reality (the opposite of distinction; one Reality (not plural)) there is a line that demarcates distinction/opposition.
Putting it all into one phrase we might say: “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime with opposition between distinction and Oneness”. At its core it´s three ideas (infinite size-time-diagram, energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
), separation and intertwinedness (the two sides of the paper)). On exoplanets they would state their reason for their own existence using these three ideas too, because taken together they explain all that needs to be explained: first thing that comes to mind is that in the stated existential theory there must be a reproducing shape (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape; a DNA-strand) somewhere. If the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all three corners, then evolution ought to occur somewhere (and be made of energymass in spacetime, while being separate/distinct in a single intertwined Reality).
Most creation-myths have a quite simple (one-pillared) and mundane story: for example genesis just states that God created Reality (that of which all is part) in 6 days and rested on the 7
th
. The scientific rival to all such creation stories is a three-pillared theory – we can´t make it any simpler (we can´t make it one-pillared) and the same would be the case on exoplanets: they too can only break it down to three interconnected ideas/pillars/fundaments, so in thinking this way we share a common intellectual history with exoplanet civilizations advanced enough to figure out this existential theory.
On a test on this subject a question might be: “what are the three pillars of the existential theory?” – the question can´t be “what is the most important pillar in the existential theory?” All pillars are equally important but constitute as distinct ideas as E=mc
2
is from infinite size, or the separation-intertwinedness-opposition (fig. 3).
This three-pillared creation story – the sum of these three chapters – is built upon logic: it includes certain truths like “I think and I exist” (distinction/separation), its opposite (Reality for which we have three proofs for that it can´t be observed/seen/contemplated i.e. the size-time-diagram is infinite), E=mc
2
which unifies nothing/spacetime with existence/energymass, and the relationship between any two sizes (justification along the infinite size-range). Every one of these ideas relates very closely to Descartes´ certain truth, meaning we can be sure of the ideas themselves – and they together build up a minimalist existential theory which needs no further logic to explain everything there is.
Having an infinite size-range has a predictive quality to it too – it makes a prediction: there ought to be evolution (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar mass) somewhere in the diversity we see throughout even the known size-range.
Though as non-intuitive as the 3-pillar existential theory may be to our evolved brains who want a single conclusion, exoplanet civilizations have the same limits and biases as us: they too are stuck with three pillars in a single theory to make the theory explainable. Science is creating universal (exoplanet) neural pathways in our brains. We should embrace the fact that by being non-intuitive but true, this science wires our brain based on science and thus universally. It is the way (the wiring) that all planets are headed to if they´re into science. It´s a universal world-view. We´re thinking like aliens.
In current scientific debates the religious will argue that faith (in a dogma) is needed to (what they call) “understand” the existence of the universe. If confronted with my theory (these lectures) they´d have to agree that logic makes their God unnecessary as a pillar of creation. In the best case scenario God is simply a synonym for Reality (because Reality is “that of which all is part” and thus God ought to be part of it too, and all we know about Reality is that it is energymass in spacetime and separation in intertwinedness).
Having an explanation – the negative side of it is it being three-pillared and unintuitive, the positive side of it being that it accounts for all of Reality and predicts evolution – further justifies the saying “a God of the gaps” (meaning the more we understand the less we need God). Now all that remains to be understood – again in an unintuitive but identical to exoplanets -way – is how, on an infinite time-line, the Big Bang (denseness) recreates and fades away into sparseness (black holes removing energymass and dark energy creating more space until no galaxies are anymore visible).
Lecture 4
The beginning of the Big Bang
I have a hard time imagining how the universe can reach complete emptiness, but it wouldn´t be the first time the universe´s nature surpasses human intuition. In the history of science stars were observed to not move relative to one another on the night sky, and this was argued to prove that the size of the universe was much smaller than the now known size – it was argued that the universe would be “unreasonably big” if the stars didn´t seem to move relative to one another as the earth moved because they were so far away.
If only enough time is needed for the universe to become empty, then we get the starting scenario which is most reasonable: we start with emptiness (spacetime). Again, spacetime is emptier than our concept for it because we (and our concepts) are made of energymass.
If you move your hand one meter (from position 1 to position 2), the laws of nature that make your hand make sense were already in place in the space of position 2 before you moved your hand there. It´s not like the universe/spacetime was absurd in location 2 and only started to make sense regarding hands when you moved your hand there. We do not impact the laws of nature in such ways; instead the laws of nature are simultaneously and equally true at all locations and all times. In other words: Pythagoras’s theorem is true even in locations where there are no objects whatsoever, but the theorem is only applicable (to be applied) to triangles. In empty space there are no objects and thus no triangles, but Pythagoras´s theorem is true there anyhow – it does not suddenly become true (switch from being untrue to true) when a triangle is imagined or physically moved there. This applies to E=mc
2
too, which is just as much of a law of nature as Pythagoras´s theorem. E=mc
2
is true everywhere and always, though humans only apply (use) the equation in certain scenarios. Where triangles can be (in spacetime) there is also E=mc
2
. Laws of nature are fundamental and inherent in spacetime and do not come about depending on events (though our application/use of any particular equation is dependent on which event we´re analyzing).
There is distinction between the practical use of equations (to solve problems or understand a phenomenon) and the core nature of spacetime having laws of nature in it. Spacetime is a no-nonsense spacetime – we live in a rational (laws of nature-abiding) universe.
One law being E=mc
2
and another one being “if it is said it must exist” (meaning energymass can´t be mentioned in the laws of nature of spacetime without energymass existing), we get spacetime to summon energymass if the starting-point was complete emptiness. “If energymass is mentioned it must be summoned” (it is mentioned in E=mc
2
) is true because it would be a nonsense universe if it “talks” about energymass without there being any – just infinite space for eternity with laws of nature regarding energymass, but never any energymass appearing/being present. It would be a nonsense universe if energymass it mentioned but never exists. It would be akin to the universe telling lies (having all these rules like E=mc
2
but never applying them to anything), or the universe babbling gibberish (having inapplicable laws of nature).
Thus, E=mc
2
being a core property of spacetime itself and the “no gibberish”-rule applying, energymass must logically be summoned – but how and where? Extremely dense i.e. everywhere, in the smallest spaces, simultaneously. Why? Our starting-point is spacetime, which needs no prior justification because it is the opposite of existence: it doesn´t exist – it is emptier than our neurons make it out to be. In it Einstein´s theory of relativity is true, meaning that there is no center point (or in other words: all points are the center) so there is no center to the Big Bang. Another way of seeing it is that as soon as there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification), E=mc
2
became true in all locations (in the smallest spaces) simultaneously – no point in space was before another in having E=mc
2
be true in it. Spacetime having E=mc
2
as a core property has E=mc
2
be true everywhere simultaneously; once we have the launching-condition of empty spacetime, through E=mc
2
, energymass is summoned everywhere simultaneously.
This “everywhere” is all things within an event horizon, meaning that things moving away faster than the speed of light (due to dark energy/accelerating cosmic expansion) are not within our event
horizon: they are not part of what can be reasonably called “our 3-dimensional space” (from our location). Things are not part of our universe once their speed hits faster than the speed of light – and many locations, within the boundaries of their respective event horizons, will one day have all energymass moving away from them at speeds faster than the speed of light (this is just the observed fact of accelerating cosmic expansion). Such a finite space with no energymass within its event horizon (all energymass moving away faster than the speed of light) would constitute “completely empty space” i.e. our starting-point for the Big Bang (energymass being summoned due to E=mc
2
).
Consider an infinite size-range - it is made of energymasspacetime: if we draw it as the Y-axis on a diagram, there can´t be a region/length in it (such as the knowable size-range) which is completely empty forever. See fig. 6.
Because of the rules E=mc
2
and “if it is mentioned it must be summoned”/”no-nonsense universe” are true throughout the infinite size-range, there can´t be a region with just spacetime (with its laws of nature) because the laws of spacetime mention energymass; spacetime is inherently tied to and intertwined with energymass – existence and non-existence go together (at all sizes). There would be no logical breaking-point (a particular size) where energymasspacetime transitions into being just spacetime for a range of sizes and then transitions back into energymasspacetime; there is no logical breaking-point where the implications of E=mc
2
(the implication being: energymass and spacetime are in the same equation) stop to be true. The transition seen in fig. 6 is impossible (there is no “empty region”). Having an empty region would be akin to zooming into the decimals of pi and seeing no numbers for a specific array of decimals: 3.14159ÄÄÄÄ265359... The Ä´s can´t be there: it´s a continuous sequence of decimal numbers. There is no break/”empty region” in the continuous decimals of pi just as there is no region of the size-range that can be empty of energymass.
In this chapter I´ve written something akin to “
first
there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification unless you consider that the size-axis of the size-time-diagram is infinite),
then
there was E=mc
2
,
then
there was energymass summoned into the smallest spaces available (available = considered to be within an event horizon and empty)”. This harkens back to previous lectures´ talk about “alien logic” (how exoplanets think). To have it make sense to our brains we use the time-
distinctions “first, then and then” but the real distinction is not in time but in steps in a sequence of logic. In other words all the mentioned steps happened simultaneously to start the Big Bang: E=mc
2
was true as soon as there was spacetime, and as soon as there was that, energymass appeared as not to make the universe absurd (by it talking gibberish or it having an empty region like in fig. 6).
The end of the Big Bang
Telescopes observe that “space is being born” i.e. that the distances between clumps of energymass (galaxies) are getting larger, and at an accelerating pace too. Not only does the Hubble law state that an object a
million light
-
years
away would be receding from us at 21 km/sec and at double the distance twice the speed, but the law states that that speed (for example 21 km/sec a million light years away) is increasing. This is called accelerating cosmic expansion. It means that from our galaxy, when/if we look into the sky trillions of years in the future, we´d see no trace of any other galaxy let alone the cosmic microwave background (because their speeds have passed the speed of light and thus went beyond the event horizon). Once that object a million light years away from us which today is racing away at 21 km/sec reaches 299792 km/sec (the speed of light), it will pass from being within our event horizon to being outside our sphere of events.
This empties our universe or as Hitchens put it: “nothingness is coming”. Once that nothingness comes we have our starting point where we run through the logic of E=mc
2
–> “if it is mentioned it must exist/be summoned” (in order for the universe not to talk gibberish or the infinite size-range not to have a break in it) –> energymass begins as dense (because of relativity and because E=mc
2
is true everywhere simultaneously/equally).
We observe that nothingness (within event horizons) is coming, and beginning from nothingness there is unintuitive logic that has a predictive quality to it: the Big Bang should start dense. This theory works well with lecture 2´s proofs for that “there is more to Reality than can be represented” (the size-time-diagram is infinite) because size is essentially space, and space and time are intertwined into a single spacetime – hence: if size/space is infinite then time must be infinite too. In other words we have reoccurring Big Bangs interspersed along the time-axis of our size-time-diagram. As soon as a region bound by an event horizon becomes empty we have the universe´s no-nonsense-laws kicking in and E=mc
2
summons energymass (in the smallest sizes that are empty equally/simultaneously).
The sequence of consecutive Big Bangs´ beginnings (emptiness leading to energymass being summoned) and ends (accelerating cosmic expansion speeding things past a point´s event horizon and emptiness being summoned) are as infinite as the time-axis proved to be based on lecture 2´s proofs. Proving (in lecture 2) that spacetime is infinite fits perfectly with the reoccurring Big Bangs (when somethingness becomes emptiness and then emptiness summons somethingness).
There will in other words, between the beginning of a Big Bang and the end of that same Big Bang, be life within the conscious/human size-range (the different locations of that size already being infinitely many, see fig. 4).
Each size along the size-axis is defined as “3-dimensional infinite space” meaning there is infinitely much life with access to universal science (i.e. some version of this lecture-series), and within our region (bound by an event horizon) there is life between the beginning and end of Big Bangs. In addition I have hard to believe that a reproducing shape (and thus evolution) only occurs in only
one
size-range (the, for humans, knowable size-range) in an infinite size-range: there ought to be many sub-size-ranges as part of the infinite size-range where evolution occurs and can reach scientific knowledge. All life mentioned above, if they reach scientific understanding, would concur on the existential theory presented in these lectures (especially lecture 3 – the three pillars/foundations/ideas which together become a minimalist theory for why there is the infinite size-range of energymasspacetime in the first place).
This is not only exoplanet science – it is science between Big Bangs and it is science in regions of the size-axis far away (in size) from our knowable size-range. See fig. 7.
Summary
First we looked at Descartes’ ”thought exists” and ”the self exists”, claimed that it was two valid statements and pointed out the distinction between them. On the other side of the paper we wanted to represent anti-distinction (the opposite of distinction) defined as “that of which all is part” (Reality), and realized that since thinker/thought is stuck on the left side of the paper we can’t represent Reality. This is not only Kant’s “the thing is not the thing itself (the mental map is not the real territory)” but more importantly whatever cannot be taken to represent “that of which all is part” i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality.
All we know about Reality (atoms, humans, galaxies) fit into a size-time-diagram (every object has a size and a time), so the minimalist approach combining the above paragraph with this one is to use the first paragraph to prove that the size-time diagram has infinite
axes. This in turn leads to an existential theory which can be summed up as “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime” – and it has a predictive quality to it: somewhere in such an existence there would be a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape and thus we get reproduction/evolution.
So far we’ve looked at the theory of why size itself exists, why there is something rather than nothing – an existential theory beginning from certain truth and logically building its way up all the way to predicting evolution.
Part 2: Evolution
My explanation of evolution focuses on how important disease and bullying (power) was for evolution.
Power
means that
fish
were
fighting fish breeding more agressive fish = dinosaurs, then wolfpacks with an alpha male.
But even before and after those eras in evolution the rule of power was in play.
In part one we had an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime (including the intertwinedness-separation-opposition and the time-axis with repeating Big Bangs perpendicular to the size-axis) that predicts a reproducing shape i.e. a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape: reproduction in an infinite size-range.
This infinite size-range predicts reproduction.
Part one was about why there is a sizescale of energymasspacetime: the answers are that the sizescale is infinite and that energymass is in spacetime. It predicts that there should be a reproducing shape: say that it is a triangle which gathers surrounding lines into a similar triangle – then it has reproduced itself. The products of this reproduction obey three rules: directly when there was reproduction three rules came into play, I´ve listed them below as 1, 2, 3 but they are not in order (they came simultaneously):
1:
There is life and death: those who survive survive and those who die are not in the game anymore. “The surviving survive”. It´s so simple – we see it in everyday life today. But everything in evolution will come back to these three rules so we might as well do the banal and bring them up.
So directly when there was a reproducing shape - so in our part of the size-range a DNA-strand which split in the middle and became two DNA-strands – the copy either survived or died.
2: The second rule is that the number of offspring has significance. That is to say: if you get one child or five children or ten children, there is a difference between those numbers – and in evolution it´s a benefit to have more children. One can also have zero children, and that is approximately like being dead.
Some would say that evolution´s meaning (the main task of life) is to make more offspring – that it´s the scientific meaning of life – Nature´s meaning: to reproduce. But I would answer that evolution makes more offspring (that´s reproduction) and making more offspring gives evolutionary benefits, but Nature itself does not care – it does not care about whether we nuke ourselves or not. There is no God that looks upon us and cares. Even reproduction becomes meaningless in the larger perspective. But in evolution it has significance whether one has zero offspring or ten offspring.
Rule number two (number of offspring matters) just as simple as rule number 1 (that there is life and death; that some live and some die).
The third rule that appered... – well all three rules appeared simultaneously directly when there was reproduction in this sizerange. The third rule is that:
3: There is mutation in every generation-shift. Things change. It doesn’t make perfect copies. Your child (if you have one) is not an exact copy of yourself or your wife – it’s a mutation; a change.
These three rules – 1: that there is life and death, the surviving survive. 2: That there are different nuances in the number of offspring. 3: That there is mutation in every generation-shift – these three rules came into play directly when the first reproduction occurred. We will return to these three rules over and over again; they are like laws of nature that like God says shall work on life directly when the first life reproduces itself. These laws of nature didn’t exist before the first life reproduced itself – they were not active then. They became active directly when there was reproduction.
These are abstract laws that we will manufacture, then we have the physical reality of that in a puddle of water a strand of DNA – a cell – made copies/offspring. Then viruses came into the game and injected its own DNA into the ordinary cells, that is to say: hijacked their reproductive system to create virus-offspring. If this would´ve continued the ocean would´ve been filled with only viruses, so there has to be some next step which made it so that our type of life survived. But the viruses added a 4
th
law (one of these abstract laws)
and that is: if you can hijack someone else’s reproductive system to create your own offspring; if you can inject your DNA into somebody else´s cell so that it creates viruses – I call this “power”. We will return to this word when we for example look at dinosaurs (they became bigger because the men killed each other to get the women whom make offspring). This power-principle was one that came after the three first ones.
The first cells reproduced and we had these three rules, then viruses came and injected their DNA and used “power” to produce more viruses. Then we get an immune-system which kills viruses i.e. protects the original organism´s reproductive system from being hijacked by viruses. So the immune-system evolved to take back the reproductive principle (2: the number of offspring matters); for the fact that one should retain the reproductive capability for oneself – so that no virus can take it over. So power has a lot to do with the number of offspring – principle 4 has a lot to do with principle 2.
We have multicellular organisms with immune-systems, we have viruses around them – and it´s an arms-race between that the viruses mutate to overcome the immune-system and the immune-
system mutates to overcome the virus. Thus we have an evolutionary pressure on mutating the immune-system as much as possible as fast as possible (because the viruses mutate very quickly), and the best way to do that is to combine genes from two different organisms: a man and a woman. So sex has its beginning in viruses.
If this doesn´t make you feel comfortable contemplate this: the truth outweighs positive-thinking. But does one want to remove whatever spreads joy among people? Those who want to defeat the religious violence in the world (I think religion is the biggest unnecessary cause of hatred in the world) – one cannot defeat that without defeating all religiousness simultaneously. To want to defeat one part of religion but not the rest of it is like voting for the Republicans and Democrats simultaneously – it´s just unreal. Sadly one must remove the good to remove the evil. Meditation still remains and one can get a kind of anxietylessness from some thoughts still but in the big picture there are no reasons that support them anymore – it´s just a brain-trick that one does.
In our evolutionary story we had an immune-system which mutates, wants more mutations – we get two genders. Then men begin to war with each other (because, metaphorically speaking, women can produce offspring once a year while men can produce it every day – we have an imbalance; asymmetry). Why is it always men that start wars? It began with the first fish – we had multicellular life in our story so far, so they became a bit bigger, could swim around – we get fish: it´s easier to find food then and easier to move around. Directly when there were two genders there was one fish which evolved to use its teeth for killing other male fish. The first aggressor of course got the most offspring because there were no other men around. That´s why men go to war: they can produce offspring with so many women while a woman has no benefit from having 1000 men.
There´s a caveat to
this once we get to caveman tribes/wolf-packs where a woman secretly wants many men to provide resources to her child, but at least in the era between fish and dinosaurs the picture was simply based on asymmetric reproductive rates.
So then the male fish grow more aggressive, the child who is the biggest and has the sharpest teeth kills the other male fish, has the most offspring; and in the next generation, again: the child with the most aggression and biggest muscles gets the most offspring – that´s how we get to dinosaurs and T-rex. We had males competing/fighting with each other and that´s why T-rex is so large. That is, again, the power-principle: just like viruses took over the reproductive system from the first cells, T-rex takes away the reproductive system from his rivals by killing them. So this principle number 4 (power) lives on – it has caused/causes so much: it causes the first viruses, it causes T-rex, that fish become aggressive, that we get two genders (by viruses getting power – so we wanted to counter that power by immune-systems i.e. two genders).
These dinosaurs then, just like humans don´t seem to have (sarcasm), any concept of preserving natural resources – so they would´ve eaten up all their trees and not had any food left. But on our planet it seems to have been a meteor-strike which wiped them out, but on exoplanets i.e. overall in this evolutionary series of evolutionary pressures causing various principles (first the three first principles, then the 4
th
principle, immune-systems, two-genderedness, bigger
fish, fights between the fish, dinosaurs). The dinosaurs ate their natural resources and all large life dies - so only small rat-like/squirrel-like life-forms live on.
The trees grow back up – we get monkeys.
Groups tend to, in a fight – if it´s a group against an individual (one against many) – the group tends to win. So we monkeys form groups, fighting together for food against individualists. The individualists lost.
So we got this - or had it from the get-go (just like with the first aggressors) – instinct that makes us want to be highest in the hierarchy and thereby get all the women. Power again. But this time it´s a kind of human power – we saw power when viruses took over the reproductive systems, we saw power when dinosaurs outcompeted their rivals (the men), we see power when a bully goes to the top of the hierarchy, pushes down the other men – and the women want the bully´s resources (he has the most stuff) so they´re attracted to him, so he gets the most offspring – out of his offspring the one that is best at getting power the one that gets most offspring.
The reason for why the brain grew so fast during the past 100 000 years was because we used the brain to plan for how to climb upward in the hierarchy. The reproductive benefits coming from being high-status in the hierarchy were so great comparing to being low-status that this put great selection-pressure on bigger brains.
Now we basically have caveman living in hierarchical societies, we have kings, aristocrats and slaves – and that is how the world was 5000 years ago. The kings build monumental architecture (pyramids and such). Then someone focused on a random word – so someone focused on what we talked about in part 1: Reality (that of which all is part) and realized one cannot see it (because we should be part of it, or the other two proofs for not being able to see all there is to Reality) and thus they invented the word God: it is one, one cannot see it – we have the dawn of monotheism.
Someone random-focused on the word “soul/self” too and realized one gets less anxiety by making a distinction between the body
one sees in ones imaginations
21.12
Author
yonis
Posted on
30/11/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Latest version of my book
Del 2: Evolutionsteorin
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/del2-interse-evolution.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
14/11/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Del 2: Evolutionsteorin
Posts navigation
Page
1
Page
2
Next page
Search for:
Search
Recent Posts
Talet 3
Sammanfattning universell kurs interse 11-01-2017
From Certain Truth to Dinosaurs (with Maan and Marwan)
War and Boredom
2 Nobel Prizes
Recent Comments
Archives
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
January 2016
Categories
Dagbok
Old
The book + diagrams
Trashcan
Trey
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.org
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Proudly powered by WordPress

Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen – Everyone needs to know the basics
Skip to content
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Everyone needs to know the basics
Talet 3
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/talet-3.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
17/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Talet 3
Sammanfattning universell kurs interse 11-01-2017
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/sammanfattning-universell-kurs-interse-11-01-2017.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
11/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Sammanfattning universell kurs interse 11-01-2017
From Certain Truth to Dinosaurs (with Maan and Marwan)
Author
yonis
Posted on
05/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on From Certain Truth to Dinosaurs (with Maan and Marwan)
War and Boredom
War-and-Boredom
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen, Sweden
1
War and Boredom
The title of this book refers to that it is hard to get through this book. The reason why this new science (that I present in this book) hasn’t been discovered until I did is because part 1 of this book gives a sense of meaninglessness toward the Universe and part 2 deals with evolution in a depressing way because the main trend is “power”.
Writing it gave me anxiety and reading it gives many people anxiety.
But the question is: does everyone agree on it? If they do, that changes the Israel-Palestine-conflict where the parties of God are vetoing
regarding the borders of
the
“holy land”; it changes religious extremism and the wars fought over it. Religion is the biggest cause for hatred
in the world, as Hitchens said. My book
is
a minimalist theory
that
encompasses all one needs to understand
Everything: existence (why there is size itself) and
evolution – even thoughts about the future of humanity/evolution.
Even though there comes a sense of meaninglessness from knowing the existential theory and a sense of depression from knowing evolution, there is
a sense of
honor in having the right world-view.
Most importantly, the religious wars - ISIS/Israel/etc. - can be demolished by a world-view which everyone agrees on. War only continues because it is boring to learn and teach the course I present in this book. Hence the book´s name: War and Boredom, or: how boredom (toward science) keeps the wars continuing.
Not only can this book end wars, but it can unify people so that they feel more friendliness toward each other – science is a language and speaking the same language makes it easier to make friends. Having the same associations between concepts (a scientific world-view) gives people a lot to agree on, they´ll “speak the same language”.
If anyhow you get too bored to study further, there are three parts to this book (1: the existential theory, 2: evolution, 3: the dawn of religion), and they’re written with different styles. You may jump to either part directly.
Lecture 1
Descartes
One of the aims of this course is to get EVERYONE to agree so that they have the same associations between scientific concepts.
There is no other proper way to accomplish this goal than by starting with certain truth, which was found by Descartes in the 1600s. He lived in a time where they believed in demons, Gods etc. so he postulated a thought experiment where he assumed an almighty demon was fooling him in everything he could be fooled in: what would remain as certain truth – what could he not be fooled in?
If he was being fooled, where would still be a “he” (or self) there to be fooled, meaning that the self certainly exists. A self is necessary for a self to be fooled.
Descartes had thus concluded his own existence.
Being fooled is thinking – thus thought exists. “There is thought” Descartes concluded as certain truth. The word “fooling” represents a thought-process.
Descartes found the starting-position for any inquiry about truth: we can know certainly that thinker and thought exists.
Distinction exists (a logical conclusion from the above)
Looking at what we´ve found as certain truth so far “from above” (meta), we can take the next logical step – adding a third factoid to our 2-statement (A and B above) starting position: that there is distinction (
between
thinker and thought). The fact that thinker and thought are two separate entities concluded to be certain truth
s
through two
different
logical pathway
s
lets us conclude that “distinction exists”
. There are what Chinese philosophy calls “the ten thousand things” (referring to the world) – there are at least two (three if we include “distinction” as th
e third thing) certain entities, and empirically we know there are “ten thousand things” (not taking the number 10 000 literally but just referring to multiplicity).
First universal diagram
We can draw the thinker and thought and distinction between them as two dots with a line between them on a piece of paper (fig. 1).
Now we have something all religions agree on
– we´ve drawn up ideas and associations between them. Everyone ought to have the same associations (explanatory thoughts) between the concepts we´ve looked at so far.
We have, if you will – in figure 1 – a universal diagram.
Reality
We have the capability to conglomerate many separate entities under the rubric of a single category. If we use this capability to collect the “ten thousand things” (distinct entities) we´ve found so far into a single thing, we ought to give that thing a word/name. Its definition can be “that of which all is
part” and “the opposite of separation/distinction”. I will use the word Reality to refer to this all-encompassing thing.
In lecture 2 I will present three proofs for that “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, but for now we can draw (adding to figure 1) a dot with a cross over it – the cross to symbolize that the dot itself is a false representation of Reality because we (the observer/self/thinker) should be part of that dot. See fig 2.
Thinking about what we´ve got so far
Thinking about what we´ve got so far (fig. 2) it’s a bundle of associations which make universal inter-religious (all religions agree on it) knowledge with both words and pictures.
In the next lecture I present why the line in fig 2 (see fig 3) represents the opposition/antagonism/disagreement/contraposition/divergence/variance between the two sides of the paper; between “thinker and thought” on one side of the paper and “Reality (that of which all is part; the opposite of separation)” on the other side of the paper.
Worth noting now is that the left side of the paper represents separation/distinction whilst the right side of the paper represents the opposite of separation/distinction – both are legitimate ideas: thinker and thought – and distinction – is certain truth based on Descartes and we all know which idea we refer to when talking about the all-encompassing [that of which all is part] Reality.
In the next lecture we will talk about why the line in fig. 3 makes it so that we can´t see Reality – I will present three proofs like in a crime case, and we will talk about what we can see if we can´t see Reality.
Making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far
1
See fig. 1 again: it´s our starting-point and the thinking that occurs in it happens in Descartes “realm of mind”; it is the mind´s realm (the left side of the paper) in which the thinking happens, and one thing we talk about is Reality on the right side of the paper in fig 3. Since the line in fig. 3 represents both the legitimacy of the ideas on both sides of the paper, and simultaneously the opposition between separation/distinction (on the left side of the paper) and [the opposite of separation/distinction] on the right side of the paper. That opposition is important and I will show its significance in lecture 2.
2
Starting from Descartes realm (of if you will: assuming that all we know is what we know for certain), we have the capability to state that there is a single Reality of which all is part – so even though we see separation we must grant that that separation (all entities) fits into a category we call Reality. There is a unifying whole even though the human mind (Descartes realm) is limited in its ways when it tries to contemplate Reality.
Not only is there the map-territory distinction (which will be presented as one out of three proofs in lecture 2), but there is also a more fundamental opposition between distinction and its opposite (there is a more fundamental opposition between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3). Not only are we stuck in the map-territory-distinction-realm but we also can conclude that no representation (regardless of the mind) is equal to Reality (on a more fundamental level than the map-territory-problem).
Representation is done in the brain using neurons and in a computer using electrons, but there is no reason why the most distant atom or quark couldn´t be proposed to be a symbol for [that of which all is part] – and even in that brainless scenario we will see in lecture 2 that “that of which all is part cannot be represented”. The map-territory-distinction is just proof/evidence number two in lecture 2 (for that we cannot see Reality and thus, since we do see/represent something, there must be more to Reality than can be represented i.e. the size-time-diagram (presented in lecture
2) is infinite along both axes.
Proof 3 in lecture 2 removes the brain from the equation and still proves that there is more to Reality than can be seen/represented/symbolized (using any means/any method – even without a brain), and since some representation is obviously (since we know that there are minds) possible, there must be more than can be represented/contemplated i.e. the size-axis is infinite and the time-axis is infinite in that two-axis diagram.
3
Both sides of the paper in fig. 3 are legitimate ideas. But still they are opposites (separation on one side and the opposite of separation on the other side). How can two derived-from-logic sides of the paper be opposites but still both be legitimate?
Usually opposition – like between Democrats and
Republicans – means that one is right and the other is wrong; they can´t both simultaneously be right: you can´t meaningfully vote for both parties at the same time.
The case is different between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3: both sides are right and they are opposites.
There is a single Reality and there is multiplicity in distinction.
What does this mean? That there is more to the size-time-diagram than anything could represent – any representation fails (you can think of some examples/suggestions for how to represent [that of which all is part]/[the opposite of separation]) – and thus the axes on the size-time-diagram are infinite. This is a hither to unpresented fact in science – it is new science: some of the best scientists ignorantly believe that the size-range is limited/finite.
4
We have quite a few associations and symbols in fig. 3 which must be agreed upon, and here I´m using the word “must” in the sense that “by the rules of logic X must be true”. Other civilizations throughout the infinitely many galaxies there are use the exact same ideas (but in a different language) and have the same associations between them (that there are infinitely many galaxies is derived from that the size-axis in the size-time-diagram is infinite). There is distinction as the third truth to be added to Descartes two fundamental truths (thinker and thought exist), and all that is opposed to (on the other side of the paper in fig. 3) to the all-encompassing Reality which is defined using at least two definitions: that of which all is part and the opposite of separation.
I´m tri-lingual but I write the same ideas and associate them in the same ways no matter which language I write in – its universal science beginning from certain truth. On other planets that have civilizations my writings in this book ought to match up quite near to the writings creating the same lecture series based on universal science that I´m creating
– “alien”/exo-planet
lecture series proceed, beginning from certain fact, through logical steps as I do.
5
[Thinker and thought] (certain truth) and thus distinction/separation are associated through negation/opposition to the right side of the paper in figure 3: Reality. The left side is not the right side just like separation is not its opposites. Both being legitimate ideas, though, connects them in the way that thinker and thought (and all other distinct entities) are in the category Reality.
Even though Reality and distinction are opposites, distinction dwells in (as a sub-entity within the category) Reality.
The associations between the left and right sides of the paper in figure 3 are both united through the notion “opposition” and through the notion that distinction is inherent in Reality (Reality being the opposite of distinction
because we have all-encompassing and its opposite: composite parts).
6
It is certainly true that all is part of a single Reality; but it is equally true that in every observation there is an observer and hence distinction (between thinker and thought). We see separate entities is as true as that the self that we are is not in front of us – but everything we see (thought/object) is in front of us.
That is evidence 1 in lecture 2 (not a proof, but a mere suggestion/evidence that [that of which all is part cannot be observed] and thus there is more to Reality than our concept of [infinitely much].
All we know about Reality has two properties: a size and a time. Size and time are two axes on a diagram, and thus all we know fits into the size-time-diagram (every object or location in space
has a size and time).
There is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram because all suggested representors for Reality fail
(for three reasons taken up in lecture 2).
7
All
bundles of associations in this chapter “making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far”
are written in order to create some universal brain structures (universal because science is the same everywhere (on all exo-planets), and their brains make the same associations too eventually). It´s not some random bundle of associations nor did I randomly present random ideas.
I assume the brain structure created by understanding this book is a replica of something derived from science; a replica of brain structures on the infinitely many other civilization-bearing planets. It´s a universal “ideology”, if you will.
Everyone has a possibility of sharing it in agreement – and future lectures will add a whole lot of complexity to it; agreement tends to build friendship so study is a way of bringing more peace to the world.
Once the full world-view is presented throughout this book, it´s a way of pacifying the world.
8
We have two brain-halves: one linguistic and one visual. So far we´ve both drawn pictorial representations and connected words – both brain-halves have been working. The connections across corpus collosum (which sits between the brain-halves and connects them) that connect a linguistic narrative/explanation to the pictorial representations are one day found in all humans thanks to science. Our brains are becoming more as science has a propensity to make them be.
This course itself, since it begins with certain truths and builds upon it logically, is a universal course (to the best of my ability).
The brain cells that constitute the negation (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 3) or opposition are not the same kind of cells (they are inhibitory neurons) that connect thinker with though as both being certain truths (but the thinker is not the thought and thus has inhibitory cells making that brain-structure work too
(what you are is not in front of you;
what you are is not visible).
Since both Reality and [what you are]/self/observer/thinker are invisible the brain might erroneously and spontaneously try to associate them, so a brain-structure is needed to inhibit that association (and replace it with a more complex explanation). That spontaneous but erroneous association is something all thinking animals throughout the universe evolved to do, and the inhibition of it through culture/civilizing/science is universally available within complex enough civilizations throughout the universe.
As you can see the brain structures responsible for doing this thing are quite complex, but also universal and thus accessible to all humans, and predictably will someday be in all humans (fostering agreement, thus friendship, thus peace).
Lecture 2
Perceive, apprehend, notice are synonyms for our representing ability, but I will use the word “see” or “observe” to refer to all of these. The goal of this lecture is to prove the statement “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, Reality being defined as “that of which all is part”. In other words: we cannot see Reality, and thus there is more to Reality than even can be contemplated (i.e. infinitely much).
I will build this lecture like a criminal court case: I will present three proofs for that we cannot see Reality i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated i.e. (since we can contemplate anything (right or wrong)) Reality is infinite.
Since anything/everything we know about Reality has some size and time, it fits into a size-time-diagram. See fig. 4.
In fig. 4 size is represented along the vertical axis and time along the horizontal axis. The objects humans see in everyday life (from the horizon to a single cell as one “pixel” in our visual field) are marked in “the human range”.
See fig 5.
In fig. 5 I´ve drawn the same diagram as in fig. 4 but this time with infinity-symbols in each corner of the squareical size-time-diagram. Two infinite axes become a square.
Proof number 3 in our “court case” for proving that the size-time-diagram (Reality) is infinite has us imagine the unobservable separatenessless Reality and ask whether there is a maximum or minimum size to/in it (a maximum/minimum being separateness while we are talking about the opposite of separation). This is again to confirm that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes.
The line we drew in fig. 4 was for separating the two sides of the paper; opposing “thinker and thought” (distinction) with its opposite: one all-encompassing non-distinction Reality. That opposition-line is what this lecture is about since it proves that the two sides of the paper are separate/opposing realms and we are stuck in one realm as long as we are observers (because observation is separation/distinction (thinker and thought)).
Proving that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes is new science because it poses the question: what happened before the Big Bang (14 billion years ago), and it presents one pillar of our existential theory: that each size is the reason for each next and previous size, and the size axis is infinite, meaning the “beginning” of the relationship between sizes keeps retreating into infinity the more we contemplate the range of the size axis.
When I presented fig. 4 for the first time I drew a cross over the dot symbolizing Reality for the plain reason that we (as observers) should be part of that dot, and by the very nature of us being separate (and the dot representing the opposite of separation) we should draw a cross over it symbolizing that we cannot see it.
The main proof though is that even if all observers were dead there´d still be, inherent and fundamental in nature, the opposition between distinction and distinction´s opposite (the two sides of the paper in fig. 4). The line is an opposition-line and it is more fundamental than being dependent on humans/observers – it refers to all representation whether it’s using/including humans or not. I am, in other words, not talking about the map-territory distinction (which symbolizes that humans have mental maps and not the real world per se; like Kant said: we have “the thing” and not “the thing itself”). Proof 2 – the opposition-line between the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 – is not subjective: it is true that we live with the map-territory-distinction but even if I died there´d still be separate things (chairs separate from cups), that kind of separation is not dependent on me/observers. Simultaneously the flipside of the coin (the other side of the paper in fig. 4) is true too: all is one single Reality (the opposite of separation). Proof 2, in other words, should not be interpreted as signifying the map-territory distinction (human subjectivity) but instead a fundamental opposition in the universe.
If we do not see Reality, then what do we see? Everything we see fits into the size-time-diagram, and since the opposition-line in fig. 4 shows that there is a fundamental rule that states, in 3 different proofs, that Reality is infinite / there is more than can even be contemplated / there is more than even non-subjective representation can represent.
Proof number 1 is really weaker than a “proof” – it´s more like evidence. It wouldn´t hold up in a court but it is a way of stating what the other proofs too point towards. Proof 1 is what we saw when presenting figure 4: any dot representing Reality is an incorrect representation because the observer should be part of the object – the thinker should be part of the thought. It denies Cartesian separation and thus is untrue, meaning that anything we draw on the right side of the paper in fig. 4 is incorrect.
We can contemplate anything: we can speculate about what´s smaller than quantum physics, or even what´s smaller than that, etc. into infinity. We are probably wrong, but any contemplation/representation counts as a contemplation – and since we know that, whether right or wrong as our contemplations may be, there is more to Reality than can be contemplated, it follows
that there must be infinitely much to Reality. Since all we know about Reality fits into a size-time-diagram, the minimalist approach is to state that it´s the size-time-diagram that is infinite.
This warrants two new words: the knowable/known size-range and the infinite size-range. The knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range. Since Einstein unified space (size) and time, one cannot be infinite without the other one being the same. Science today doesn´t know whether there was a “before” to the Big Bang or not (whether time was created at the Big Bang), but now we know that the Big Bang is just an event on an infinite time axis. In a future lecture we will talk about how/why the Big Bang recreates (happens over and over).
We talked about universal diagrams (and universal brain-structures) in lecture 1. The size-time-diagram is one major universal diagram. A lot of detail can be added to it because all fields of science fit into it. The infinity-symbols on each axis of the squareical diagram are drawn, based on science, on exo-planets with advanced enough civilizations.
This lecture is about proving that [that of which all is part] (the opposite of separation) i.e. Reality cannot be observed/represented, and that this fact is true irrespective of whether we are observers or dead, and applying this to the size-time-diagram (which gets its infinity-symbols into the squareical diagram).
Proof number 2 (the main proof) is the oppositional approach between Reality and distinction, and it is not subjective because Reality and Reality´s opposite exist even if we were dead. Proof number 3 is about imagining (even though no imagination is it) Reality as a big gray (because energymass is white and spacetime is black) solid, in which we know no observer should be (because observation is separation) – does it have separation i.e. a biggest and a smallest size? No, because such distinctions are not in the opposite of distinction (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 4).
I´ve mentioned universal associations in the brain / exo-planet science, so talking about the size-time-diagram we can add more universal notions to it: why did I draw upwards on the size axis as larger and downward as smaller? Why is the time-axis horizontally drawn instead of vertically? The diagram works even if we would define the vertical axis as time and the horizontal axis as size – so why do we draw size vertically and time horizontally? Is it universal i.e. on other planets or just a human convention like writing from left to right in English-speaking countries and right to left in Arabic-speaking countries?
Evolution has it so that during the history of science telescopes look upward and microscopes look downward. This would be the case on other planets too: they turn their heads upward to see the large and downward (onto a table) to see the small; the opposite can´t be true on any planet. Thus we get the size axis´ standard (of upward being larger) from evolution / the history of science. I use the word “standard” because it comes from evolution rather than being more fundamentally hard-wired into the universe such as the fact that the size-time-diagram is a square with infinity symbols. That the size-time-diagram is a square is not a standard – it is something stronger than that. The fact that we represent time on the vertical axis (and upward as larger) comes from a weaker source: tradition (even though that same tradition is true on all planets; evolution, in this regard, happens the same on all planets that end up with civilizations).
We thus have added standards or weak conventions (derived from history) in addition to having strong diagrams like the size-time-diagram being a square. The distinction between the two is made based on science and is thus made on exo-planets.
Scientists are looking for exo-planets that bear civilizations. If the size-range is infinite – as we´ve proven that it is – then each particular size (like the human range in fig. 5) is infinite too; if the largest is infinitely large then there is, considering the size of a human, an infinite distance in any direction that that human could find itself in. This makes civilizations on other planets a must, not an assumption. The known/knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range, and within the known size-range there is a range in which evolution occurs (between the smallest cells and the biggest organisms), and since we´ve proven that there are infinitely many objects within/of that size-range, then there must be infinitely many locations in which evolution occurs.
In the next lecture we will bind together the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 (distinction and distinction´s opposite; “thinker and thought” opposing Reality) with E=mc
2
(energymasspacetime) and with the infinity of the size-time axes, into a single existential theory which is a rival to “God created earth in 6 days…” The existential theory is a minimalist account for why there is a sizescale in the first place, and why there is something (energymass) rather than nothing (spacetime). It reminds me of this passage: “HITCHENS: In other words, as the great physicist Laplace said when he demonstrated his working model (his orrery, as it’s called) of the solar system to the emperor and Napoleon said, “Well I see there’s no God in this system,” and Laplace said, “Well, Your Majesty, it works without that assumption.””
In this chapter I´ve presented three proofs for that the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in it i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated; we do represent something but however we choose to represent (even representations that can be proposed as thought-experiments if we were dead) we do not represent Reality i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality. Are there any counter-arguments saying that the size-time-diagram is finite? I built this lecture like a court case and I´d like to hear the opposing side. There are no arguments that oppose what I´ve proven so far.
Lecture 3
E=mc
2
E=mc
2
as an equation is only used in relativistic scenarios such as very high speed or very high energy, but since speed is a continuum the equation is true at slower speeds. There is a difference between the equation being applicable (being needed while solving equations) and it being true; it is always true everywhere but it is not needed for equations except in special scenarios.
An example of the equation being true everywhere and always is this: nuclear power-plants turn mass (kilograms) into energy (joule), so that if you input 1 kg of uranium-mass you get out 99.9999 kg of waste products – some of the mass turned into energy which lights our light-bulbs. The atoms that lost some weight (that weight was converted into energy) are atoms just like other kinds of atoms, for example in autumn leaves. If you´d drop leaves into the core of the sun, the sun´s nuclear furnace
would turn mass in the leaves into energy (light). Hence all objects are subject to the E=mc
2
-rule, which states that energy (E) equals mass (m). This warrants the word energymass because they are no longer two distinct things – they are but different manifestations of the same thing. In the brain energymass should be a single idea whilst the concepts “energy and mass” refers to two different forms of a single idea.
Verbs and adjectives tend to refer to energy (shining, running, etc.) while nouns refer to mass (body, tree, etc.) E=mc
2
states that the two (verbs/adjectives and nouns) are together in a single equation. Although only applicable in relativistic scenarios (the role of relativism becomes close to zero in everyday human events, except that our light-bulbs shine because mass turns into energy and the sun can makes leaves into light), E=mc
2
is in a “philosophical” sense true everywhere and always just like Pythagoras’s theorem about triangles remains “philosophically true” even where there are no physical triangles. You wouldn´t say 1=1 is not true in empty space just because there are no objects there to count as “1”.
In addition to energymass being a single concept (and not two distinct ones), spacetime gets added into the mix by the c
2
-part of the equation. c is the speed of light (km/h) and thus a distance (space) over time – spacetime! Energymass (E=m) and spacetime (c
2
) should in the brain be represented by a single idea which we can call energymasspacetime. This harkens back to the previous lectures about Reality, which is a synonym for energymasspacetime. Einstein invented the equation E=mc
2
and thus unified in it energymass with spacetime – and synonyms for energymass are “existence” or “1” while synonyms for spacetime are “non-existence”, “emptiness”, “nothing” and “zero”. There is no more to be considered regarding Reality than energymasspacetime; energymasspacetime involves everything (energymass) and nothing (spacetime) so there is nothing more to be considered/added to Reality – Reality is energymasspacetime; everything is included into Reality once we have defined Reality as energymasspacetime.
The Existential Theory
Each culture seems to have a creation myth (such as genesis) – the creation of the cosmos/world/Reality is something humans have invented hypotheses for during millennia. The stories answer the question “why are we here?”
The true answer is unintuitive. First of all: why is there any particular size? What justifies, say, the size of a molecule? The answer is: the smaller and the larger (the rest of the size-range). Atoms justify a molecule and a molecule exhibits a place for atoms to live in: justifies atoms. Humans need an earth to dwell on (the earth is larger) and humans are made of cells (cells are smaller). Each size bears a relationship upon each other size – the smaller justify the larger and the larger justify the smaller. Since the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all four corners of the square (because of the proof where we had two sides of a paper), the size-range is infinite i.e. the pattern of justification between/amongst sizes continues into the infinitely large and infinitely small. What the ancients called “the first cause” keeps retreating into infinity size-wise the more we contemplate it. The size-range is like a fractal: you can keep zooming in or out infinitely much, and the question “why is there this particular object that I see” has its answer in the relationship between all the sizes: justification. Infinite justification is the reason why there is a size-range at all. But there is more that is needed for a full-fledged existential theory: two more factors play their roles.
Spacetime is emptier than we can imagine/represent it. We (and all representeurs) are energymass and thus are the opposite of spacetime. We could let a piece of empty space represent spacetime, but as soon as we use energymass (such as our brains) to do so, we´ve lost the truly empty nature of spacetime: it is unimaginably empty. Any bundle of neurons, no matter how we wire it, is still the opposite of what they want to represent when they want to present us with spacetime. It is therefore useful to have two concepts for spacetime: (1) our simplest intuition of spacetime and (2) additional defining language explaining that spacetime is emptier than (1). This is how exoplanet civilizations would wire their brains regarding the concept “spacetime” too, just because it’s the most accurate science they can manage.
Just like energy and mass are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon, energymass and spacetime are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon. What does it mean for spacetime to be bundled together with (intertwined with) energymass? Everything exists as/in/because of nothing; 1 exists in 0; energymass and spacetime are together in the E=mc
2
-equation. Where could energymass/existence exist? In nothingness. Just like sizes justify one another, spacetime justifies energymass.
The last question that remains, after we have justification between sizes in an infinite size-range, and that all points in the size-time-diagram are made of energymasspacetime (and energymass is justified by it being in spacetime), is the objective fact that there both is a single Reality (the right side of the paper) and there´s its opposite: distinction (between, say, thinker and thought).
The existential theory builds on three “pillars”/fundamental ideas:
An infinite sizescale,
Energymasspacetime as in the equation E=mc
2
Distinction between distinction itself and distinction´s opposite (see fig. 1, 2, 3):
Between distinction (the left side of the paper, our 2 certain truths: I exist and there is thought) and Reality (the opposite of distinction; one Reality (not plural)) there is a line that demarcates distinction/opposition.
Putting it all into one phrase we might say: “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime with opposition between distinction and Oneness”. At its core it´s three ideas (infinite size-time-diagram, energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
), separation and intertwinedness (the two sides of the paper)). On exoplanets they would state their reason for their own existence using these three ideas too, because taken together they explain all that needs to be explained: first thing that comes to mind is that in the stated existential theory there must be a reproducing shape (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape; a DNA-strand) somewhere. If the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all three corners, then evolution ought to occur somewhere (and be made of energymass in spacetime, while being separate/distinct in a single intertwined Reality).
Most creation-myths have a quite simple (one-pillared) and mundane story: for example genesis just states that God created Reality (that of which all is part) in 6 days and rested on the 7
th
. The scientific rival to all such creation stories is a three-pillared theory – we can´t make it any simpler (we can´t make it one-pillared) and the same would be the case on exoplanets: they too can only break it down to three interconnected ideas/pillars/fundaments, so in thinking this way we share a common intellectual history with exoplanet civilizations advanced enough to figure out this existential theory.
On a test on this subject a question might be: “what are the three pillars of the existential theory?” – the question can´t be “what is the most important pillar in the existential theory?” All pillars are
equally important but constitute as distinct ideas as E=mc
2
is from infinite size, or the separation-intertwinedness-opposition (fig. 3).
This three-pillared creation story – the sum of these three chapters – is built upon logic: it includes certain truths like “I think and I exist” (distinction/separation), its opposite (Reality for which we have three proofs for that it can´t be observed/seen/contemplated i.e. the size-time-diagram is infinite), E=mc
2
which unifies nothing/spacetime with existence/energymass, and the relationship between any two sizes (justification along the infinite size-range). Every one of these ideas relates very closely to Descartes´ certain truth, meaning we can be sure of the ideas themselves – and they together build up a minimalist existential theory which needs no further logic to explain everything there is.
Having an infinite size-range has a predictive quality to it too – it makes a prediction: there ought to be evolution (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar mass) somewhere in the diversity we see throughout even the known size-range.
Though as non-intuitive as the 3-pillar existential theory may be to our evolved brains who want a single conclusion, exoplanet civilizations have the same limits and biases as us: they too are stuck with three pillars in a single theory to make the theory explainable. Science is creating universal (exoplanet) neural pathways in our brains. We should embrace the fact that by being non-intuitive but true, this science wires our brain based on science and thus universally. It is the way (the wiring) that all planets are headed to if they´re into science. It´s a universal world-view. We´re thinking like aliens.
In current scientific debates the religious will argue that faith (in a dogma) is needed to (what they call) “understand” the existence of the universe. If confronted with my theory (these lectures) they´d have to agree that logic makes their God unnecessary as a pillar of creation. In the best case scenario God is simply a synonym for Reality (because Reality is “that of which all is part” and thus God ought to be part of it too, and all we know about Reality is that it is energymass in spacetime and separation in intertwinedness).
Having an explanation – the negative side of it is it being three-pillared and unintuitive, the positive side of it being that it accounts for all of Reality and predicts evolution – further justifies the saying “a God of the gaps” (meaning the more we understand the less we need God). Now all that remains to be understood – again in an unintuitive but identical to exoplanets -way – is how, on an infinite time-line, the Big Bang (denseness) recreates and fades away into sparseness (black holes removing energymass and dark energy creating more space until no galaxies are anymore visible).
Lecture 4
The beginning of the Big Bang
I have a hard time imagining how the universe can reach complete emptiness, but it wouldn´t be the first time the universe´s nature surpasses human intuition. In the history of science stars were observed to not move relative to one another on the night sky, and this was argued to prove that the
size of the universe was much smaller than the now known size – it was argued that the universe would be “unreasonably big” if the stars didn´t seem to move relative to one another as the earth moved because they were so far away.
If only enough time is needed for the universe to become empty, then we get the starting scenario which is most reasonable: we start with emptiness (spacetime). Again, spacetime is emptier than our concept for it because we (and our concepts) are made of energymass.
If you move your hand one meter (from position 1 to position 2), the laws of nature that make your hand make sense were already in place in the space of position 2 before you moved your hand there. It´s not like the universe/spacetime was absurd in location 2 and only started to make sense regarding hands when you moved your hand there. We do not impact the laws of nature in such ways; instead the laws of nature are simultaneously and equally true at all locations and all times. In other words: Pythagoras’s theorem is true even in locations where there are no objects whatsoever, but the theorem is only applicable (to be applied) to triangles. In empty space there are no objects and thus no triangles, but Pythagoras´s theorem is true there anyhow – it does not suddenly become true (switch from being untrue to true) when a triangle is imagined or physically moved there. This applies to E=mc
2
too, which is just as much of a law of nature as Pythagoras´s theorem. E=mc
2
is true everywhere and always, though humans only apply (use) the equation in certain scenarios. Where triangles can be (in spacetime) there is also E=mc
2
. Laws of nature are fundamental and inherent in spacetime and do not come about depending on events (though our application/use of any particular equation is dependent on which event we´re analyzing).
There is distinction between the practical use of equations (to solve problems or understand a phenomenon) and the core nature of spacetime having laws of nature in it. Spacetime is a no-nonsense spacetime – we live in a rational (laws of nature-abiding) universe.
One law being E=mc
2
and another one being “if it is said it must exist” (meaning energymass can´t be mentioned in the laws of nature of spacetime without energymass existing), we get spacetime to summon energymass if the starting-point was complete emptiness. “If energymass is mentioned it must be summoned” (it is mentioned in E=mc
2
) is true because it would be a nonsense universe if it “talks” about energymass without there being any – just infinite space for eternity with laws of nature regarding energymass, but never any energymass appearing/being present. It would be a nonsense universe if energymass it mentioned but never exists. It would be akin to the universe telling lies (having all these rules like E=mc
2
but never applying them to anything), or the universe babbling gibberish (having inapplicable laws of nature).
Thus, E=mc
2
being a core property of spacetime itself and the “no gibberish”-rule applying, energymass must logically be summoned – but how and where? Extremely dense i.e. everywhere, in the smallest spaces, simultaneously. Why? Our starting-point is spacetime, which needs no prior justification because it is the opposite of existence: it doesn´t exist – it is emptier than our neurons make it out to be. In it Einstein´s theory of relativity is true, meaning that there is no center point (or in other words: all points are the center) so there is no center to the Big Bang. Another way of seeing it is that as soon as there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification), E=mc
2
became true in all locations (in the smallest spaces) simultaneously – no point in space was before another in having E=mc
2
be true in it. Spacetime having E=mc
2
as a core property has E=mc
2
be true everywhere
simultaneously; once we have the launching-condition of empty spacetime, through E=mc
2
, energymass is summoned everywhere simultaneously.
This “everywhere” is all things within an event horizon, meaning that things moving away faster than the speed of light (due to dark energy/accelerating cosmic expansion) are not within our event horizon: they are not part of what can be reasonably called “our 3-dimensional space” (from our location). Things are not part of our universe once their speed hits faster than the speed of light – and many locations, within the boundaries of their respective event horizons, will one day have all energymass moving away from them at speeds faster than the speed of light (this is just the observed fact of accelerating cosmic expansion). Such a finite space with no energymass within its event horizon (all energymass moving away faster than the speed of light) would constitute “completely empty space” i.e. our starting-point for the Big Bang (energymass being summoned due to E=mc
2
).
Consider an infinite size-range - it is made of energymasspacetime: if we draw it as the Y-axis on a diagram, there can´t be a region/length in it (such as the knowable size-range) which is completely empty forever. See fig. 6.
Because of the rules E=mc
2
and “if it is mentioned it must be summoned”/”no-nonsense universe” are true throughout the infinite size-range, there can´t be a region with just spacetime (with its laws of nature) because the laws of spacetime mention energymass; spacetime is inherently tied to and intertwined with energymass – existence and non-existence go together (at all sizes). There would be no logical breaking-point (a particular size) where energymasspacetime transitions into being just spacetime for a range of sizes and then transitions back into energymasspacetime; there is no logical breaking-point where the implications of E=mc
2
(the implication being: energymass and spacetime are in the same equation) stop to be true. The transition seen in fig. 6 is impossible (there is no “empty region”). Having an empty region would be akin to zooming into the decimals of pi and seeing no numbers for a specific array of decimals: 3.14159ÄÄÄÄ265359... The Ä´s can´t be there: it´s a continuous sequence of decimal numbers. There is no break/”empty region” in the continuous decimals of pi just as there is no region of the size-range that can be empty of energymass.
In this chapter I´ve written something akin to “
first
there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification unless you consider that the size-axis of the size-time-diagram is infinite),
then
there was E=mc
2
,
then
there was energymass summoned into the smallest spaces available (available = considered to be within an event horizon and empty)”. This harkens back to previous lectures´ talk about “alien logic” (how exoplanets think). To have it make sense to our brains we use the time-distinctions “first, then and then” but the real distinction is not in time but in steps in a sequence of logic. In other words all the mentioned steps happened simultaneously to start the Big Bang: E=mc
2
was true as soon as there was spacetime, and as soon as there was that, energymass appeared as not to make the universe absurd (by it talking gibberish or it having an empty region like in fig. 6).
The end of the Big Bang
Telescopes observe that “space is being born” i.e. that the distances between clumps of energymass (galaxies) are getting larger, and at an accelerating pace too. Not only does the Hubble law state that an object a
million light
-
years
away would be receding from us at 21 km/sec and at double the distance twice the speed, but the law states that that speed (for example 21 km/sec a million light years away) is increasing. This is called accelerating cosmic expansion. It means that from our galaxy, when/if we look into the sky trillions of years in the future, we´d see no trace of any other galaxy let alone the cosmic microwave background (because their speeds have passed the speed of light and thus went beyond the event horizon). Once that object a million light years away from us which today is racing away at 21 km/sec reaches 299792 km/sec (the speed of light), it will pass from being within our event horizon to being outside our sphere of events.
This empties our universe or as Hitchens put it: “nothingness is coming”. Once that nothingness comes we have our starting point where we run through the logic of E=mc
2
–> “if it is mentioned it must exist/be summoned” (in order for the universe not to talk gibberish or the infinite size-range not to have a break in it) –> energymass begins as dense (because of relativity and because E=mc
2
is true everywhere simultaneously/equally).
We observe that nothingness (within event horizons) is coming, and beginning from nothingness there is unintuitive logic that has a predictive quality to it: the Big Bang should start dense. This theory works well with lecture 2´s proofs for that “there is more to Reality than can be represented” (the size-time-diagram is infinite) because size is essentially space, and space and time are intertwined into a single spacetime – hence: if size/space is infinite then time must be infinite too. In other words we have reoccurring Big Bangs interspersed along the time-axis of our size-time-diagram. As soon as a region bound by an event horizon becomes empty we have the universe´s no-nonsense-laws kicking in and E=mc
2
summons energymass (in the smallest sizes that are empty equally/simultaneously).
The sequence of consecutive Big Bangs´ beginnings (emptiness leading to energymass being summoned) and ends (accelerating cosmic expansion speeding things past a point´s event horizon and emptiness being summoned) are as infinite as the time-axis proved to be based on lecture 2´s proofs. Proving (in lecture 2) that spacetime is infinite fits perfectly with the reoccurring Big Bangs (when somethingness becomes emptiness and then emptiness summons somethingness).
There will in other words, between the beginning of a Big Bang and the end of that same Big Bang, be life within the conscious/human size-range (the different locations of that size already being infinitely many, see fig. 4).
Each size along the size-axis is defined as “3-dimensional infinite space” meaning there is infinitely much life with access to universal science (i.e. some version of this lecture-series), and within our region (bound by an event horizon) there is life between the beginning and end of Big Bangs. In addition I have hard to believe that a reproducing shape (and thus evolution) only occurs in only
one
size-range (the, for humans, knowable size-range) in an infinite size-range: there ought to be many sub-size-ranges as part of the infinite size-range where evolution occurs and can reach scientific knowledge. All life mentioned above, if they reach scientific understanding, would concur on the existential theory presented in these lectures (especially lecture 3 – the three pillars/foundations/ideas which together become a minimalist theory for why there is the infinite size-range of energymasspacetime in the first place).
This is not only exoplanet science – it is science between Big Bangs and it is science in regions of the size-axis far away (in size) from our knowable size-range. See fig. 7.
Summary
First we looked at Descartes’ ”thought exists” and ”the self exists”, claimed that it was two valid statements and pointed out the distinction between them. On the other side of the paper we wanted to represent anti-distinction (the opposite of distinction) defined as “that of which all is part” (Reality), and realized that since thinker/thought is stuck on the left side of the paper we can’t represent Reality. This is not only Kant’s “the thing is not the thing itself (the mental map is not the real territory)” but more importantly whatever cannot be taken to represent “that of which all is part” i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality.
All we know about Reality (atoms, humans, galaxies) fit into a size-time-diagram (every object has a size and a time), so the minimalist approach combining the above paragraph with this one is to use the first paragraph to prove that the size-time diagram has infinite
axes. This in turn leads to an existential theory which can be summed up as “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime” – and it has a predictive quality to it: somewhere in such an existence there would be a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape and thus we get reproduction/evolution.
So far we’ve looked at the theory of why size itself exists, why there is something rather than nothing – an existential theory beginning from certain truth and logically building its way up all the way to predicting evolution.
Part 2: Evolution
My explanation of evolution focuses on how important disease and bullying (power) was for evolution.
Power
means that
fish
were
fighting fish breeding more agressive fish = dinosaurs, then
wolfpacks with an alpha male.
But even before and after those eras in evolution the rule of power was in play.
In part one we had an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime (including the intertwinedness-separation-opposition and the time-axis with repeating Big Bangs perpendicular to the size-axis) that predicts a reproducing shape i.e. a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape: reproduction in an infinite size-range.
This infinite size-range predicts reproduction.
Part one was about why there is a sizescale of energymasspacetime: the answers are that the sizescale is infinite and that energymass is in spacetime. It predicts that there should be a reproducing shape: say that it is a triangle which gathers surrounding lines into a similar triangle – then it has reproduced itself. The products of this reproduction obey three rules: directly when there was reproduction three rules came into play, I´ve listed them below as 1, 2, 3 but they are not in order (they came simultaneously):
1:
There is life and death: those who survive survive and those who die are not in the game anymore. “The surviving survive”. It´s so simple – we see it in everyday life today. But everything in evolution will come back to these three rules so we might as well do the banal and bring them up.
So directly when there was a reproducing shape - so in our part of the size-range a DNA-strand which split in the middle and became two DNA-strands – the copy either survived or died.
2: The second rule is that the number of offspring has significance. That is to say: if you get one child or five children or ten children, there is a difference between those numbers – and in evolution it´s a benefit to have more children. One can also have zero children, and that is approximately like being dead.
Some would say that evolution´s meaning (the main task of life) is to make more offspring – that it´s the scientific meaning of life – Nature´s meaning: to reproduce. But I would answer that evolution makes more offspring (that´s reproduction) and making more offspring gives evolutionary benefits, but Nature itself does not care – it does not care about whether we nuke ourselves or not. There is no God that looks upon us and cares. Even reproduction becomes meaningless in the larger perspective. But in evolution it has significance whether one has zero offspring or ten offspring.
Rule number two (number of offspring matters) just as simple as rule number 1 (that there is life and death; that some live and some die).
The third rule that appered... – well all three rules appeared simultaneously directly when there was reproduction in this sizerange. The third rule is that:
3: There is mutation in every generation-shift. Things change. It doesn’t make perfect copies. Your child (if you have one) is not an exact copy of yourself or your wife – it’s a mutation; a change.
These three rules – 1: that there is life and death, the surviving survive. 2: That there are different nuances in the number of offspring. 3: That there is mutation in every generation-shift – these three rules came into play directly when the first reproduction occurred. We will return to these three rules over and over again; they are like laws of nature that like God says shall work on life directly when the first life reproduces itself. These laws of nature didn’t exist before the first life reproduced itself – they were not active then. They became active directly when there was reproduction.
These are abstract laws that we will manufacture, then we have the physical reality of that in a puddle of water a strand of DNA – a cell – made copies/offspring. Then viruses came into the game and injected its own DNA into the ordinary cells, that is to say: hijacked their reproductive system to create virus-offspring. If this would´ve continued the ocean would´ve been filled with only viruses, so there has to be some next step which made it so that our type of life survived. But the viruses added a 4
th
law (one of these abstract laws)
and that is: if you can hijack someone else’s reproductive system to create your own offspring; if you can inject your DNA into somebody else´s cell so that it creates viruses – I call this “power”. We will return to this word when we for example look at dinosaurs (they became bigger because the men killed each other to get the women whom make offspring). This power-principle was one that came after the three first ones.
The first cells reproduced and we had these three rules, then viruses came and injected their DNA and used “power” to produce more viruses. Then we get an immune-system which kills viruses i.e. protects the original organism´s reproductive system from being hijacked by viruses. So the immune-system evolved to take back the reproductive principle (2: the number of offspring matters); for the fact that one should retain the reproductive capability for oneself – so that no virus can take it over. So power has a lot to do with the number of offspring – principle 4 has a lot to do with principle 2.
We have multicellular organisms with immune-systems, we have viruses around them – and it´s an arms-race between that the viruses mutate to overcome the immune-system and the immune-system mutates to overcome the virus. Thus we have an evolutionary pressure on mutating the immune-system as much as possible as fast as possible (because the viruses mutate very quickly), and the best way to do that is to combine genes from two different organisms: a man and a woman. So sex has its beginning in viruses.
If this doesn´t make you feel comfortable contemplate this: the truth outweighs positive-thinking. But does one want to remove whatever spreads joy among people? Those who want to defeat the religious violence in the world (I think religion is the biggest unnecessary cause of hatred in the world) – one cannot defeat that without defeating all religiousness simultaneously. To want to defeat one part of religion but not the rest of it is like voting for the Republicans and Democrats simultaneously – it´s just unreal. Sadly one must remove the good to remove the evil. Meditation still remains and one can get a kind of anxietylessness from some thoughts still but in the big picture there are no reasons that support them anymore – it´s just a brain-trick that one does.
In our evolutionary story we had an immune-system which mutates, wants more mutations – we get two genders. Then men begin to war with each other (because, metaphorically speaking, women can produce offspring once a year while men can produce it every day – we have an imbalance; asymmetry). Why is it always men that start wars? It began with the first fish – we had multicellular life in our story so far, so they became a bit bigger, could swim around – we get fish: it´s easier to find food then and easier to move around. Directly when there were two genders there was one fish which evolved to use its teeth for killing other male fish. The first aggressor of course got the most offspring because there were no other men around. That´s why men go to war: they can produce offspring with so many women while a woman has no benefit from having 1000 men.
There´s a caveat to
this once we get to caveman tribes/wolf-packs where a woman secretly wants many men to provide resources to her child, but at least in the era between fish and dinosaurs the picture was simply based on asymmetric reproductive rates.
So then the male fish grow more aggressive, the child who is the biggest and has the sharpest teeth kills the other male fish, has the most offspring; and in the next generation, again: the child with the most aggression and biggest muscles gets the most offspring – that´s how we get to dinosaurs and T-rex. We had males competing/fighting with each other and that´s why T-rex is so large. That is, again, the power-principle: just like viruses took over the reproductive system from the first cells, T-rex takes away the reproductive system from his rivals by killing them. So this principle number 4 (power) lives on – it has caused/causes so much: it causes the first viruses, it causes T-rex, that fish become aggressive, that we get two genders (by viruses getting power – so we wanted to counter that power by immune-systems i.e. two genders).
These dinosaurs then, just like humans don´t seem to have (sarcasm), any concept of preserving natural resources – so they would´ve eaten up all their trees and not had any food left. But on our planet it seems to have been a meteor-strike which wiped them out, but on exoplanets i.e. overall in this evolutionary series of evolutionary pressures causing various principles (first the three first principles, then the 4
th
principle, immune-systems, two-genderedness, bigger
fish, fights between the fish, dinosaurs). The dinosaurs ate their natural resources and all large life dies - so only small rat-like/squirrel-like life-forms live on.
The trees grow back up – we get monkeys.
Groups tend to, in a fight – if it´s a group against an individual (one against many) – the group tends to win. So we monkeys form groups, fighting together for food against individualists. The individualists lost.
So we got this - or had it from the get-go (just like with the first aggressors) – instinct that makes us want to be highest in the hierarchy and thereby get all the women. Power again. But this time it´s a kind of human power – we saw power when viruses took over the reproductive systems, we saw power when dinosaurs outcompeted their rivals (the men), we see power when a bully goes to the top of the hierarchy, pushes down the other men – and the women want the bully´s resources (he has the most stuff) so they´re attracted to him, so he gets the most offspring – out of his offspring the one that is best at getting power the one that gets most offspring.
The reason for why the brain grew so fast during the past 100 000 years was because we used the brain to plan for how to climb upward in the hierarchy. The reproductive benefits coming from being
cchigh-status in the hierarchy were so great comparing to being low-status that this put great selection-pressure on bigger brains.
Now we basically have caveman living in hierarchical societies, we have kings, aristocrats and slaves – and that is how the world was 5000 years ago. The kings build monumental architecture (pyramids and such). Then someone focused on a random word – so someone focused on what we talked about in part 1: Reality (that of which all is part) and realized one cannot see it (because we should be part of it, or the other two proofs for not being able to see all there is to Reality) and thus they invented the word God: it is one, one cannot see it – we have the dawn of monotheism.
Someone random-focused on the word “soul/self” too and realized one gets less anxiety by making a distinction between the body
one sees in ones imaginations
(the body in one´s plans which tries to get reproduction, survival, resources, power, etc. – the three evolutionary principles that we listed in the beginning of this chapter). One sees a body in front of oneself which tries to make plans to get these things. But it is not that body which is “true” – instead it´s the observer which sees this body
which is “True” – and one cannot see that observer because one is it all the time. This was when they invented the Soul.
So the words God and Soul are legitimate concepts – then the church added a bunch of things like “the soul is immortal” and that “God said this and that to one or another person” (prophets and so on whom lied about a bunch of things). We also have the Golden Rule “do onto others like you would like to have them do onto you” which is a universal thing that they surely have on other planets: we are all humans, we want to be treated as of equal value. So from evolution we went from having cavemen to that someone came up with these
simple
thoughts, and then the church added a bunch of clutter to them. We thus have religions´ beginnings. The ideas of soul (the True self/observer which can´t be seen) and God (that of which all is part is One) are scientific ideas – so to some extent we have the beginnings of science.
Then people invented the telescope and microscope (to discover the sizes in the size-range), and we have a lot of knowledge and upbringing – but this is more intellectual history instead of biological history/evolution – but the intellectual has its foundation in the biological. So now we have gone through the whole story from the first cells to the birth of science.
I try to make this into a theory that is agreed upon by everyone; nowadays there are people who say that God (defined as a metaphysical mind) is needed to understand the theory of evolution – that there are mysteries within evolution. But I see no mysteries in this.
In a future book we will look at consciousness: which kind of emotional repertoire we have. We already said that we want power, we want reproduction, we want resources… But we will look closer at exactly which emotions exist and into which categories one can categorize them – and why they came about (what their evolutionary histories/pressures are). Which exact emotions? The feeling that one wants power, the feeling that one wants to help the flock, the feeling that one wants to plan how to get reproduction… - everything we do / the things that we do. For example I wrote this book because I´m at “war” with the enemies of civilization (“the enemy tribe”), because I want power out of selling this, reproduction out of getting status from having found a new way of describing some things, helping
countries ravaged by religion to become civilized (“helping flock-members”)…
These things drive me to do something intellectual. The emotional repertoire – that is to say: the diagrams about the brain – we can look at in the next book, because now we´ve looked at evolution and evolution created the brain so there is a lot of overlap.
Part 3:
The dawn of religion
No-one knows which kind of God emerged first (in protohuman minds). Was it the contemplation on Part 1 of this book (the oneness of Reality and it’s unrepresentability – focusing on the most all-encompassing concept)? Was there a war between two tribes/groups and to avoid soldiers from deserting one’s own group, the priest/king claimed to get his orders from a super-human invisible entity (which “looks better” than a mere human giving orders). Thinking
“they have a superhuman invisible commander while our group is just mere humans” is demoralizing for the group believing that the enemy has something mystical super-human communicating with their leadership. This kind of god is a tool of war. Or was the first God invented in dog-brain sized brains where a simple cortical circuit (the assotiations: the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) lessened anxiety.
We are after-all craving for the approval of “the hierarchical top”, we fear it... we have all kinds of emotions toward it and it can be imagined to love me, to dictate procedures like prayers to me, etc. It’s such a simple cortical circuit to define the hierarchy’s top as “that of which all is part (Reality)” and say that it loves me. That’s basically three concepts (hierarhical top (Reality) protecting me) – and it alliviates anxiety and gets us through dark nights of the soul. For the simple reason that it feels good to activate that circuit we try to “drug ourselves” by activating it over and over, emphasizing our belief in it, teaching it to everybody. The “hierarchical top (defined as Reality) protects me”-emotion
is one of those good feelings that we can activate at will. When we genetically engineer super-positive feelings to be activated by words, those new animals will propably activate their best emotions like a drug-addict seeks drugs – but they can activate it with words.
The circuitry is simple enough and panic attacks are common enough that I think everyone activates that “...protects/loves me”-circuitry during their life-time. Some choose to call it “belief in God”, others “the hierarchical top (defined as that of which all is part) protects me” and others don’t use any words for it because it is as unnoticable as digestion – something that naturally occurs in certain circumstances and one doesn’t need to be arrogant or proud of having that circuitry because it’s like 3-4 concepts (memorizing 4 concepts whom’s associations make us feel better is not a big feat).
Whichever type of God came first is lesser of a question, though, than: is heaven the same thing? Can “heaven” (and “hell”) be interpreted in a way that it makes sense? Heaven is obviously not a location in the sizerange (we don’t move in the sizerange when we die), so is heaven outside the entire theory (and thus “outside” (though this thing has no outside) that of which all is part)? No. Heaven may be synonomous to being good, and not some location in the diagram.
Maybe heaven is what the future genetically engineered super-happy animal will be in all the time.
Summary
Now that we know the three-pillar existential theory (like infinitely many extraterrestrials in infinite space thinks about it), we’ve got the beginning of evolution with a tiny DNA-strand (first reproduction sparking the three first evolutionary rules (1,2,3) and then the 4
th
(power). At the same time we see a continuum all the way to understand religions.
Since the infinitely many extraterrestrials are like us – they share the same logical evolutionary principles in sets following one another along time in a triangle-shape because increasing complexity is shown along the triangle.
It’s not like I don’t sometimes focus on the sentence “top of the hierarchy (defined as that of which all is part) loves and protects me” (“belief in God” in religious language).
Aliens can also prioritize what to focus on; what to take more off and what one wants to take less of. Aliens “judge” us based on principles like maximum happiness for all (animals, all humans), “do onto others like you’d want them do to yourself”. These are simple universal rules that aliens follow to maximize happiness in an otherwise brutal dog-eat-dog world.
What’s worth noticing
in this whole book
is the existential theory which predicts a tiny DNA-strand is more interesting because it is HOW God created the universe, or if you prefer: you remove God and the existential theory rests firmly on its three pillars.
To me, the core of religion seems to be different emotions to and from the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”). The context of course is hierarchical animals which were preceded by group-dwelling animals (we talked about this in part 2 of this book: evolution).
Having a simplistic association of concepts (merely the 3-4
concepts: hierarchical top – defined as that of which all is part – protects/loves/etc me) gives a relief of anxiety, fear, loneliness etc. Having the more complex picture of the same thing – the context surrounding it – makes the whole thing mundane because we realize that “hierarchical top” refers to our wolf-like nature and “that of which all is part” comes as an infinite sizerange.
As I’ve said I agree with the words Soul (true self vs false self; observer of the body in one’s plans vs. the body in one’s plans) and God (defined as “that of which all is part” and synonymous with Reality). But Heaven is a tricker question – what does “heaven” mean? It is obviously no unknown size-range in the infinite sizerange nor a location in space, nor can it be “outside” [that of which all is part]. I acknowledge that believing in heaven gives the same kind of fear-relief as “the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) protects me”, but like I said: I have trouble not being complex and analyzing “the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) protects me” (putting it in it’s sizescalian and evolutionary context), and with “Heaven” I have even more trouble because the single simplest thought ruins that idea. If I were to try to “believe in Heaven” I’d have to focus so hard that my mind doesn’t wander to even the most closely associated or easily retrieved scientific concept (because that destroys heaven). I do believe in doing good out of solidarity, and that doing good will reak its rewards for the millions of coming generations.
So to me Holy Books tend to contain only the following: different emotions to and from the hierarchical top (defined as “that of which all is part”) , scientific truths like that Reality cannot be seen, heaven & hell and rituals.
Other than material pleasures like humor, I think we can find
condolence
in that being something in nothing with a bleak evolutionary story is more grim than we feel it to be; the truth hurts but not as much as we can feel. We are worse off than we realize and we should be happy we don’t fully feel our meaningless depressing situation which is made sense of in an unintuitive (and thus gives the feeling of confusion) way
(I’m thinking mainly of the three-PILLAR existential theory).
In Holy Books I also tend to find what I’ll relate to you in an anecdote: I was sitting in the back-seat of a car on vacation in a country which I had fallen in love with, whilst winter was raging in my home country. The driver of the car asked if I wanted a hazelnut croissant. I thought what was more important of a topic was for me to whine about that I don’t ever want to leave this country, I want my vacation to last longer, I don’t want to go back to the darkness and snow. So I said “I don’t want to go back to Sweden 🙁 !!” and the driver asked “what does this have to do with the hazelnut croissant?”. I put my answer in a joke: “the connection between the two topics is very deep and significant, but it’s hard to explain: it’s mysterious – and that’s religion.” I tend to find, to say the least, unintuitive associations between concepts in holy books (not meant as jokes).
About Heaven again:
So true justice is impossibly unattainable, which means that this world is inherently unjust?
Yes it's unjust and that seems quite obvious. The other day I heard two people talking: "life can't be this shitty without there being a heaven - there must be a heaven to make life worthwhile", I didn't say anything because their illusion makes them happy but I was thinking: "I am SURE there is no heaven and I can PROVE it scientifically. I even know that the true nature of the situation is worse than we feel it to be (intellectually only can we realize exactly how bleak human life is (and my book is to a large extent so meaninglessness-giving and depressing that one can make jokes out of it)). The only reason to keep living is out of solidarity and because science can create an animal which is 100% happy throughout its lifetime (maybe 100 years from now)."
So heaven was just the divine carrot at the end of the rainbow which acts as a counterweight to the stick that is life?
Do I believe in God, Heaven, The Day of Judgement, etc? As much as I believe that “the top of the hierarchy (defined as “that of which all is part”) protects me” – I use it sometimes. But then if I analyze it, it kindof breaks down: into a donkey with a carrot regarding heaven:
I’m trying to translate all religious concepts (and did well with God and Soul) into scientific language. I can’t do Heaven as a scientific translation except by using this donkey picture – I’m sorry!
The only hope I have of there being a heaven for anyone in the future is that humanity genetically engineers a super-happy animal.
I did well by translating
Soul into scientific language (the body with the plans and the see’er of the body in the plans) and I did well with God (that of which all is part) because it’s one, it can’t be seen,
it’s the cause of everything...
But with Heaven I really can’t do any better than this donkey-picture, and I’m sad about it. I still use the concept Heaven but in the religious way, I don’t use it in the scientific way because it just gets me sad (but it’s funny at the same time).
I “believe in Heaven” in the religious way, but I don’t “believe in Heaven” in the scientific way. Humans are capable of such cognitive dissonance.
I think "heaven" is only valid if someone is watching us (to determine whether we sin or not; go to heaven or hell), and needing that surveilance is the same as being a flock-animal. Heaven thus comes from us needing a flock (being used to someone watching us).
Meta-commentary on this book
If the purpose of this book is to unify across religious-differences and build more agreement and thus friendship/trust in the world, then the overall structure of having three parts should remain the same no matter how the course/book is presented:
first
the existential theory because it predicts that there ought to be a tiny DNA-strand somewhere,
then
evolution (because it’s a continuation off of the existential theory/part 1),
then
other thoughts like the circuitry related to religion.
If we focus on ways to teach part 1 of this book (the existential theory), one has three options:
begin from Descartes’ certain truth (I think and I am) and make small logical steps all the way up to anti-distinction (that of which all is part) and how distinction vs. anti-distinction –opposition proves that the sizerange is infinite.
begin from Nothingness (spacetime) which is there “a priori” (needs no prior justification) and is emptier than we can imagine it as. Then state that that spacetime is non-absurd/non-bizarre i.e. that for example the case is not that at one moment 1+1=2, then 1+1=5, then 1+1=241, then 1+1=2 again. 1+1=2 is a law of nature inherent in spacetime, and so is Pythagoras’ theorems about triangles (a triangle is not a sphere because the universe is non-absurd). The laws of nature state
d
so far already hint at Existence (energymass) but E=mc
2
is a law of nature that certainly explicitly requires Energymass. Where is Energymass first summoned? In the smallest spaces, thus we get a dense Big Bang throughout the entire sizerange.
begin with stating the three pillars of the existential theory: (1) an infinite sizerange (2) of energymasspacetime (3) in intertwinedness-separation-opposition.
Including all three ways to begin should convince everyone of that this world-view is valid.
The way I go about teaching this course is universal, and the latest thing I’ve noticed about my course is that the number 3 repeats in many places: there are three ways to start the course (Certain Truth, Nothingness, 3 Pillars of the Existential Theory), the existential theory has 3 pillars, the first evolutionary rules (before power/viruses emerge) are 3.
Extraterrestrials would notice the number 3 popping up all the time too.
The diagram
This is the logotype infinitely many extraterrestrials, basing it off of science, paint on their T-shirts, caps and other merchendize. We’ve already talked about the infinite sizerange and the evolutionary theory (the square and the triangle), but the additional third part aliens would add to the diagram is their diagrams of the brain: the different categories (large or small, 3 of them) of hard-wired circuits: homeostatic circuits, social/external-circuits and circuitry that gets activated when the two other categories of circuits aren’t active (these are gathering resources, curiosity (expanding one’s world-view), planning how to get power, planning how to get reproduction).
In our planning-system we have serotonine (the red line) and dopamine (the blue line).
The number 3 is a magic number because
there are 3 ways to begin this universal course (nothingness, certain truth or 3 pillars of the existential theory), there are 3 pillars to the existential theory, there are 3 first evolutionary principles and there are 3 categories of evolved brain circuits (social/external, homeostatic and cortex-idle).
3 is the
most
universal digit.
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen, Sweden
War and Boredom
– Religious wars continue because this book isn’t known enough, and it is not known because it is “boring” i.e. causes feelings of meaninglessness, depression etc.
Author
yonis
Posted on
31/12/2016
21/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on War and Boredom
2 Nobel Prizes
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/Untitled-Project2.mp4
Author
yonis
Posted on
12/12/2016
14/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on 2 Nobel Prizes
V 2-4
V2-4
Author
yonis
Posted on
08/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on V 2-4
Existential theory (2)
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/We-are-evolution-2.mp4
Author
yonis
Posted on
07/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Existential theory (2)
Summary in video (10 min)
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/Untitled.mp4
Author
yonis
Posted on
05/12/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Summary in video (10 min)
Latest version of my book
Warrior of Boredom
The title of this book refers to that it is hard to get through this book. The reason why this new science (that I present in this book) hasn’t been discovered until I did is because it’s depressing, anxiety-giving and BORING. But the question is: does everyone agree on it? If they do, that changes the Israel-Palestine-conflict where the parties of God are vetoing “the holy land”. Religion is the biggest cause for hate in the world, as Hitchens said. My book defeats religion – it’s a minimalist theory that works completely – a theory of Everything: existence (why there is size itself), evolution – even thoughts on the methodology for doing politics.
Philosophy = honor,
but anxiety/depression and boredom. Religion = no honor,
but less anxiety/depression and less boredom.
The big picture, accounting of everything, conflicts with certain positive-thinking brain-tricks and with our bias toward ignoring some negative/depressing aspects of nature.
The first part of this book will be a more detailed discourse about the following paragraph:
Descartes proved that there is distinction (between thinker and thought) - what's the opposite of distinction: "that of which all is part" (Reality). Since we are stuck in Descarte's thinker and thought-realm we can't see Reality, nor can "whatever" not represent it, meaning that there's more to it than can be contemplated/represented. Since all objects we know of fit in a size-time-diagram, this argument must mean that there is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram - and this in turn leads us to an existential theory (a theory about why there is size in the first place).
I realize that’s too fast of a paragraph to convince everyone and thus I want to convince the readers of this book to be warrios or boredom and see all my arguments.
Lecture 1
Descartes
One of the aims of this course is to get EVERYONE to agree so that they have the same associations between scientific concepts.
There is no other proper way to accomplish this goal than by starting with certain truth, which was found by Descartes in the 1600s. He lived in a time where they believed in demons, Gods etc. so he postulated a thought experiment where he assumed an almighty demon was fooling him in everything he could be fooled in: what would remain as certain truth – what could he not be fooled in?
If he was being fooled, where would still be a “he” (or self) there to be fooled, meaning that the self certainly exists. A self is necessary for a self to be fooled.
Descartes had thus concluded his own existence.
Being fooled is thinking – thus thought exists. “There is thought” Descartes concluded as certain truth. The word “fooling” represents a thought-process.
Descartes found the starting-position for any inquiry about truth: we can know certainly that thinker and thought exists.
Distinction exists (a logical conclusion from the above)
Looking at what we´ve found as certain truth so far “from above” (meta), we can take the next logical step – adding a third factoid to our 2-statement (A and B above) starting position: that there is distinction (
between
thinker and thought). The fact that thinker and thought are two separate entities concluded to be certain truth
s
through two
different
logical pathway
s
lets us conclude that “distinction exists”
. There are what Chinese philosophy calls “the ten thousand things” (referring to the world) – there are at least two (three if we include “distinction” as th
e third thing) certain entities, and empirically we know there are “ten thousand things” (not taking the number 10 000 literally but just referring to multiplicity).
First universal diagram
We can draw the thinker and thought and distinction between them as two dots with a line between them on a piece of paper (fig. 1).
Now we have something all religions agree on
– we´ve drawn up ideas and associations between them. Everyone ought to have the same associations (explanatory thoughts) between the concepts we´ve looked at so far.
We have, if you will – in figure 1 – a universal diagram.
Reality
We have the capability to conglomerate many separate entities under the rubric of a single category. If we use this capability to collect the “ten thousand things” (distinct entities) we´ve found so far into a single thing, we ought to give that thing a word/name. Its definition can be “that of which all is part” and “the opposite of separation/distinction”. I will use the word Reality to refer to this all-encompassing thing.
In lecture 2 I will present three proofs for that “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, but for now we can draw (adding to figure 1) a dot with a cross over it – the cross to symbolize that the dot itself is a false representation of Reality because we (the observer/self/thinker) should be part of that dot. See fig 2.
Thinking about what we´ve got so far
Thinking about what we´ve got so far (fig. 2) it’s a bundle of associations which make universal inter-religious (all religions agree on it) knowledge with both words and pictures.
In the next lecture I present why the line in fig 2 (see fig 3) represents the opposition/antagonism/disagreement/contraposition/divergence/variance between the two sides of the paper; between “thinker and thought” on one side of the paper and “Reality (that of which all is part; the opposite of separation)” on the other side of the paper.
Worth noting now is that the left side of the paper represents separation/distinction whilst the right side of the paper represents the opposite of separation/distinction – both are legitimate ideas: thinker and thought – and distinction – is certain truth based on Descartes and we all know which idea we refer to when talking about the all-encompassing [that of which all is part] Reality.
In the next lecture we will talk about why the line in fig. 3 makes it so that we can´t see Reality – I will present three proofs like in a crime case, and we will talk about what we can see if we can´t see Reality.
Making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far
1
See fig. 1 again: it´s our starting-point and the thinking that occurs in it happens in Descartes “realm of mind”; it is the mind´s realm (the left side of the paper) in which the thinking happens, and one thing we talk about is Reality on the right side of the paper in fig 3. Since the line in fig. 3 represents both the legitimacy of the ideas on both sides of the paper, and simultaneously the opposition between separation/distinction (on the left side of the paper) and [the opposite of separation/distinction] on the right side of the paper. That opposition is important and I will show its significance in lecture 2.
2
Starting from Descartes realm (of if you will: assuming that all we know is what we know for certain), we have the capability to state that there is a single Reality of which all is part – so even though we see separation we must grant that that separation (all entities) fits into a category we call Reality. There is a unifying whole even though the human mind (Descartes realm) is limited in its ways when it tries to contemplate Reality.
Not only is there the map-territory distinction (which will be presented as one out of three proofs in lecture 2), but there is also a more fundamental opposition between distinction and its opposite (there is a more fundamental opposition between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3). Not only are we stuck in the map-territory-distinction-realm but we also can conclude that no representation (regardless of the mind) is equal to Reality (on a more fundamental level than the map-territory-problem).
Representation is done in the brain using neurons and in a computer using electrons, but there is no reason why the most distant atom or quark couldn´t be proposed to be a symbol for [that of which all is part] – and even in that brainless scenario we will see in lecture 2 that “that of which all is part cannot be represented”. The map-territory-distinction is just proof/evidence number two in lecture 2 (for that we cannot see Reality and thus, since we do see/represent something, there must be more to Reality than can be represented i.e. the size-time-diagram (presented in lecture
2) is infinite along both axes.
Proof 3 in lecture 2 removes the brain from the equation and still proves that there is more to Reality than can be seen/represented/symbolized (using any means/any method – even without a brain), and since some representation is obviously (since we know that there are minds) possible, there must be more than can be represented/contemplated i.e. the size-axis is infinite and the time-axis is infinite in that two-axis diagram.
3
Both sides of the paper in fig. 3 are legitimate ideas. But still they are opposites (separation on one side and the opposite of separation on the other side). How can two derived-from-logic sides of the paper be opposites but still both be legitimate?
Usually opposition – like between Democrats and Republicans – means that one is right and the other is wrong; they can´t both simultaneously be right: you can´t meaningfully vote for both parties at the same time.
The case is different between the two sides of the paper in fig. 3: both sides are right and they are opposites.
There is a single Reality and there is multiplicity in distinction.
What does this mean? That there is more to the size-time-diagram than anything could represent – any representation fails (you can think of some
examples/suggestions for how to represent [that of which all is part]/[the opposite of separation]) – and thus the axes on the size-time-diagram are infinite. This is a hither to unpresented fact in science – it is new science: some of the best scientists ignorantly believe that the size-range is limited/finite.
4
We have quite a few associations and symbols in fig. 3 which must be agreed upon, and here I´m using the word “must” in the sense that “by the rules of logic X must be true”. Other civilizations throughout the infinitely many galaxies there are use the exact same ideas (but in a different language) and have the same associations between them (that there are infinitely many galaxies is derived from that the size-axis in the size-time-diagram is infinite). There is distinction as the third truth to be added to Descartes two fundamental truths (thinker and thought exist), and all that is opposed to (on the other side of the paper in fig. 3) to the all-encompassing Reality which is defined using at least two definitions: that of which all is part and the opposite of separation.
I´m tri-lingual but I write the same ideas and associate them in the same ways no matter which language I write in – its universal science beginning from certain truth. On other planets that have civilizations my writings in this book ought to match up quite near to the writings creating the same lecture series based on universal science that I´m creating
– “alien”/exo-planet
lecture series proceed, beginning from certain fact, through logical steps as I do.
5
[Thinker and thought] (certain truth) and thus distinction/separation are associated through negation/opposition to the right side of the paper in figure 3: Reality. The left side is not the right side just like separation is not its opposites. Both being legitimate ideas, though, connects them in the way that thinker and thought (and all other distinct entities) are in the category Reality.
Even though Reality and distinction are opposites, distinction dwells in (as a sub-entity within the category) Reality.
The associations between the left and right sides of the paper in figure 3 are both united through the notion “opposition” and through the notion that distinction is inherent in Reality (Reality being the opposite of distinction
because we have all-encompassing and its opposite: composite parts).
6
It is certainly true that all is part of a single Reality; but it is equally true that in every observation there is an observer and hence distinction (between thinker and thought). We see separate entities is as true as that the self that we are is not in front of us – but everything we see (thought/object) is in front of us.
That is evidence 1 in lecture 2 (not a proof, but a mere suggestion/evidence that [that of which all is part cannot be observed] and thus there is more to Reality than our concept of [infinitely much].
All we know about Reality has two properties: a size and a time. Size and time are two axes on a diagram, and thus all we know fits into the size-time-diagram (every object or location in space has a size and time).
There is infinitely much to the size-time-diagram because all suggested representors for Reality fail
(for three reasons taken up in lecture 2).
7
All
bundles of associations in this chapter “making some new associations between what we´ve talked about so far”
are written in order to create some universal brain structures (universal because
science is the same everywhere (on all exo-planets), and their brains make the same associations too eventually). It´s not some random bundle of associations nor did I randomly present random ideas.
I assume the brain structure created by understanding this book is a replica of something derived from science; a replica of brain structures on the infinitely many other civilization-bearing planets. It´s a universal “ideology”, if you will.
Everyone has a possibility of sharing it in agreement – and future lectures will add a whole lot of complexity to it; agreement tends to build friendship so study is a way of bringing more peace to the world.
Once the full world-view is presented throughout this book, it´s a way of pacifying the world.
8
We have two brain-halves: one linguistic and one visual. So far we´ve both drawn pictorial representations and connected words – both brain-halves have been working. The connections across corpus collosum (which sits between the brain-halves and connects them) that connect a linguistic narrative/explanation to the pictorial representations are one day found in all humans thanks to science. Our brains are becoming more as science has a propensity to make them be.
This course itself, since it begins with certain truths and builds upon it logically, is a universal course (to the best of my ability).
The brain cells that constitute the negation (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 3) or opposition are not the same kind of cells (they are inhibitory neurons) that connect thinker with though as both being certain truths (but the thinker is not the thought and thus has inhibitory cells making that brain-structure work too
(what you are is not in front of you;
what you are is not visible).
Since both Reality and [what you are]/self/observer/thinker are invisible the brain might erroneously and spontaneously try to associate them, so a brain-structure is needed to inhibit that association (and replace it with a more complex explanation). That spontaneous but erroneous association is something all thinking animals throughout the universe evolved to do, and the inhibition of it through culture/civilizing/science is universally available within complex enough civilizations throughout the universe.
As you can see the brain structures responsible for doing this thing are quite complex, but also universal and thus accessible to all humans, and predictably will someday be in all humans (fostering agreement, thus friendship, thus peace).
Lecture 2
Perceive, apprehend, notice are synonyms for our representing ability, but I will use the word “see” or “observe” to refer to all of these. The goal of this lecture is to prove the statement “that of which all is part cannot be observed”, Reality being defined as “that of which all is part”. In other words: we cannot see Reality, and thus there is more to Reality than even can be contemplated (i.e. infinitely much).
I will build this lecture like a criminal court case: I will present three proofs for that we cannot see Reality i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated i.e. (since we can contemplate anything (right or wrong)) Reality is infinite.
Since anything/everything we know about Reality has some size and time, it fits into a size-time-diagram. See fig. 4.
In fig. 4 size is represented along the vertical axis and time along the horizontal axis. The objects humans see in everyday life (from the horizon to a single cell as one “pixel” in our visual field) are marked in “the human range”.
See fig 5.
In fig. 5 I´ve drawn the same diagram as in fig. 4 but this time with infinity-symbols in each corner of the squareical size-time-diagram. Two infinite axes become a square.
Proof number 3 in our “court case” for proving that the size-time-diagram (Reality) is infinite has us imagine the unobservable separatenessless Reality and ask whether there is a maximum or minimum size to/in it (a maximum/minimum being separateness while we are talking about the opposite of separation). This is again to confirm that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes.
The line we drew in fig. 4 was for separating the two sides of the paper; opposing “thinker and thought” (distinction) with its opposite: one all-encompassing non-distinction Reality. That opposition-line is what this lecture is about since it proves that the two sides of the paper are
separate/opposing realms and we are stuck in one realm as long as we are observers (because observation is separation/distinction (thinker and thought)).
Proving that the size-time-diagram has infinite axes is new science because it poses the question: what happened before the Big Bang (14 billion years ago), and it presents one pillar of our existential theory: that each size is the reason for each next and previous size, and the size axis is infinite, meaning the “beginning” of the relationship between sizes keeps retreating into infinity the more we contemplate the range of the size axis.
When I presented fig. 4 for the first time I drew a cross over the dot symbolizing Reality for the plain reason that we (as observers) should be part of that dot, and by the very nature of us being separate (and the dot representing the opposite of separation) we should draw a cross over it symbolizing that we cannot see it.
The main proof though is that even if all observers were dead there´d still be, inherent and fundamental in nature, the opposition between distinction and distinction´s opposite (the two sides of the paper in fig. 4). The line is an opposition-line and it is more fundamental than being dependent on humans/observers – it refers to all representation whether it’s using/including humans or not. I am, in other words, not talking about the map-territory distinction (which symbolizes that humans have mental maps and not the real world per se; like Kant said: we have “the thing” and not “the thing itself”). Proof 2 – the opposition-line between the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 – is not subjective: it is true that we live with the map-territory-distinction but even if I died there´d still be separate things (chairs separate from cups), that kind of separation is not dependent on me/observers. Simultaneously the flipside of the coin (the other side of the paper in fig. 4) is true too: all is one single Reality (the opposite of separation). Proof 2, in other words, should not be interpreted as signifying the map-territory distinction (human subjectivity) but instead a fundamental opposition in the universe.
If we do not see Reality, then what do we see? Everything we see fits into the size-time-diagram, and since the opposition-line in fig. 4 shows that there is a fundamental rule that states, in 3 different proofs, that Reality is infinite / there is more than can even be contemplated / there is more than even non-subjective representation can represent.
Proof number 1 is really weaker than a “proof” – it´s more like evidence. It wouldn´t hold up in a court but it is a way of stating what the other proofs too point towards. Proof 1 is what we saw when presenting figure 4: any dot representing Reality is an incorrect representation because the observer should be part of the object – the thinker should be part of the thought. It denies Cartesian separation and thus is untrue, meaning that anything we draw on the right side of the paper in fig. 4 is incorrect.
We can contemplate anything: we can speculate about what´s smaller than quantum physics, or even what´s smaller than that, etc. into infinity. We are probably wrong, but any contemplation/representation counts as a contemplation – and since we know that, whether right or wrong as our contemplations may be, there is more to Reality than can be contemplated, it follows that there must be infinitely much to Reality. Since all we know about Reality fits into a size-time-diagram, the minimalist approach is to state that it´s the size-time-diagram that is infinite.
This warrants two new words: the knowable/known size-range and the infinite size-range. The knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range. Since Einstein unified space (size) and time, one cannot be infinite without the other one being the same. Science today doesn´t know whether there was a “before” to the Big Bang or not (whether time was created at the Big Bang), but now we know that the Big Bang is just an event on an infinite time axis. In a future lecture we will talk about how/why the Big Bang recreates (happens over and over).
We talked about universal diagrams (and universal brain-structures) in lecture 1. The size-time-diagram is one major universal diagram. A lot of detail can be added to it because all fields of science fit into it. The infinity-symbols on each axis of the squareical diagram are drawn, based on science, on exo-planets with advanced enough civilizations.
This lecture is about proving that [that of which all is part] (the opposite of separation) i.e. Reality cannot be observed/represented, and that this fact is true irrespective of whether we are observers or dead, and applying this to the size-time-diagram (which gets its infinity-symbols into the squareical diagram).
Proof number 2 (the main proof) is the oppositional approach between Reality and distinction, and it is not subjective because Reality and Reality´s opposite exist even if we were dead. Proof number 3 is about imagining (even though no imagination is it) Reality as a big gray (because energymass is white and spacetime is black) solid, in which we know no observer should be (because observation is separation) – does it have separation i.e. a biggest and a smallest size? No, because such distinctions are not in the opposite of distinction (the left side of the paper is not the right side of the paper in fig. 4).
I´ve mentioned universal associations in the brain / exo-planet science, so talking about the size-time-diagram we can add more universal notions to it: why did I draw upwards on the size axis as larger and downward as smaller? Why is the time-axis horizontally drawn instead of vertically? The diagram works even if we would define the vertical axis as time and the horizontal axis as size – so why do we draw size vertically and time horizontally? Is it universal i.e. on other planets or just a human convention like writing from left to right in English-speaking countries and right to left in Arabic-speaking countries?
Evolution has it so that during the history of science telescopes look upward and microscopes look downward. This would be the case on other planets too: they turn their heads upward to see the large and downward (onto a table) to see the small; the opposite can´t be true on any planet. Thus we get the size axis´ standard (of upward being larger) from evolution / the history of science. I use the word “standard” because it comes from evolution rather than being more fundamentally hard-wired into the universe such as the fact that the size-time-diagram is a square with infinity symbols. That the size-time-diagram is a square is not a standard – it is something stronger than that. The fact that we represent time on the vertical axis (and upward as larger) comes from a weaker source: tradition (even though that same tradition is true on all planets; evolution, in this regard, happens the same on all planets that end up with civilizations).
We thus have added standards or weak conventions (derived from history) in addition to having strong diagrams like the size-time-diagram being a square. The distinction between the two is made based on science and is thus made on exo-planets.
Scientists are looking for exo-planets that bear civilizations. If the size-range is infinite – as we´ve proven that it is – then each particular size (like the human range in fig. 5) is infinite too; if the largest is infinitely large then there is, considering the size of a human, an infinite distance in any direction that that human could find itself in. This makes civilizations on other planets a must, not an assumption. The known/knowable size-range is part of the infinite size-range, and within the known size-range there is a range in which evolution occurs (between the smallest cells and the biggest organisms), and since we´ve proven that there are infinitely many objects within/of that size-range, then there must be infinitely many locations in which evolution occurs.
In the next lecture we will bind together the two sides of the paper in fig. 4 (distinction and distinction´s opposite; “thinker and thought” opposing Reality) with E=mc
2
(energymasspacetime) and with the infinity of the size-time axes, into a single existential theory which is a rival to “God created earth in 6 days…” The existential theory is a minimalist account for why there is a sizescale in the first place, and why there is something (energymass) rather than nothing (spacetime). It reminds me of this passage: “HITCHENS: In other words, as the great physicist Laplace said when he demonstrated his working model (his orrery, as it’s called) of the solar system to the emperor and Napoleon said, “Well I see there’s no God in this system,” and Laplace said, “Well, Your Majesty, it works without that assumption.””
In this chapter I´ve presented three proofs for that the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in it i.e. that there is more to Reality than can be contemplated; we do represent something but however we choose to represent (even representations that can be proposed as thought-experiments if we were dead) we do not represent Reality i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality. Are there any counter-arguments saying that the size-time-diagram is finite? I built this lecture like a court case and I´d like to hear the opposing side. There are no arguments that oppose what I´ve proven so far.
Lecture 3
E=mc
2
E=mc
2
as an equation is only used in relativistic scenarios such as very high speed or very high energy, but since speed is a continuum the equation is true at slower speeds. There is a difference between the equation being applicable (being needed while solving equations) and it being true; it is always true everywhere but it is not needed for equations except in special scenarios.
An example of the equation being true everywhere and always is this: nuclear power-plants turn mass (kilograms) into energy (joule), so that if you input 1 kg of uranium-mass you get out 99.9999 kg of waste products – some of the mass turned into energy which lights our light-bulbs. The atoms that lost some weight (that weight was converted into energy) are atoms just like other kinds of atoms, for example in autumn leaves. If you´d drop leaves into the core of the sun, the sun´s nuclear furnace would turn mass in the leaves into energy (light). Hence all objects are subject to the E=mc
2
-rule, which states that energy (E) equals mass (m). This warrants the word energymass because they are no longer two distinct things – they are but different manifestations of the same thing. In the brain
energymass should be a single idea whilst the concepts “energy and mass” refers to two different forms of a single idea.
Verbs and adjectives tend to refer to energy (shining, running, etc.) while nouns refer to mass (body, tree, etc.) E=mc
2
states that the two (verbs/adjectives and nouns) are together in a single equation. Although only applicable in relativistic scenarios (the role of relativism becomes close to zero in everyday human events, except that our light-bulbs shine because mass turns into energy and the sun can makes leaves into light), E=mc
2
is in a “philosophical” sense true everywhere and always just like Pythagoras’s theorem about triangles remains “philosophically true” even where there are no physical triangles. You wouldn´t say 1=1 is not true in empty space just because there are no objects there to count as “1”.
In addition to energymass being a single concept (and not two distinct ones), spacetime gets added into the mix by the c
2
-part of the equation. c is the speed of light (km/h) and thus a distance (space) over time – spacetime! Energymass (E=m) and spacetime (c
2
) should in the brain be represented by a single idea which we can call energymasspacetime. This harkens back to the previous lectures about Reality, which is a synonym for energymasspacetime. Einstein invented the equation E=mc
2
and thus unified in it energymass with spacetime – and synonyms for energymass are “existence” or “1” while synonyms for spacetime are “non-existence”, “emptiness”, “nothing” and “zero”. There is no more to be considered regarding Reality than energymasspacetime; energymasspacetime involves everything (energymass) and nothing (spacetime) so there is nothing more to be considered/added to Reality – Reality is energymasspacetime; everything is included into Reality once we have defined Reality as energymasspacetime.
The Existential Theory
Each culture seems to have a creation myth (such as genesis) – the creation of the cosmos/world/Reality is something humans have invented hypotheses for during millennia. The stories answer the question “why are we here?”
The true answer is unintuitive. First of all: why is there any particular size? What justifies, say, the size of a molecule? The answer is: the smaller and the larger (the rest of the size-range). Atoms justify a molecule and a molecule exhibits a place for atoms to live in: justifies atoms. Humans need an earth to dwell on (the earth is larger) and humans are made of cells (cells are smaller). Each size bears a relationship upon each other size – the smaller justify the larger and the larger justify the smaller. Since the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all four corners of the square (because of the proof where we had two sides of a paper), the size-range is infinite i.e. the pattern of justification between/amongst sizes continues into the infinitely large and infinitely small. What the ancients called “the first cause” keeps retreating into infinity size-wise the more we contemplate it. The size-range is like a fractal: you can keep zooming in or out infinitely much, and the question “why is there this particular object that I see” has its answer in the relationship between all the sizes: justification. Infinite justification is the reason why there is a size-range at all. But there is more that is needed for a full-fledged existential theory: two more factors play their roles.
Spacetime is emptier than we can imagine/represent it. We (and all representeurs) are energymass and thus are the opposite of spacetime. We could let a piece of empty space represent spacetime, but as soon as we use energymass (such as our brains) to do so, we´ve lost the truly empty nature of
spacetime: it is unimaginably empty. Any bundle of neurons, no matter how we wire it, is still the opposite of what they want to represent when they want to present us with spacetime. It is therefore useful to have two concepts for spacetime: (1) our simplest intuition of spacetime and (2) additional defining language explaining that spacetime is emptier than (1). This is how exoplanet civilizations would wire their brains regarding the concept “spacetime” too, just because it’s the most accurate science they can manage.
Just like energy and mass are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon, energymass and spacetime are distinct manifestations of a single phenomenon. What does it mean for spacetime to be bundled together with (intertwined with) energymass? Everything exists as/in/because of nothing; 1 exists in 0; energymass and spacetime are together in the E=mc
2
-equation. Where could energymass/existence exist? In nothingness. Just like sizes justify one another, spacetime justifies energymass.
The last question that remains, after we have justification between sizes in an infinite size-range, and that all points in the size-time-diagram are made of energymasspacetime (and energymass is justified by it being in spacetime), is the objective fact that there both is a single Reality (the right side of the paper) and there´s its opposite: distinction (between, say, thinker and thought).
The existential theory builds on three “pillars”/fundamental ideas:
An infinite sizescale,
Energymasspacetime as in the equation E=mc
2
Distinction between distinction itself and distinction´s opposite (see fig. 1, 2, 3):
Between distinction (the left side of the paper, our 2 certain truths: I exist and there is thought) and Reality (the opposite of distinction; one Reality (not plural)) there is a line that demarcates distinction/opposition.
Putting it all into one phrase we might say: “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime with opposition between distinction and Oneness”. At its core it´s three ideas (infinite size-time-diagram, energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
), separation and intertwinedness (the two sides of the paper)). On exoplanets they would state their reason for their own existence using these three ideas too, because taken together they explain all that needs to be explained: first thing that comes to mind is that in the stated existential theory there must be a reproducing shape (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape; a DNA-strand) somewhere. If the size-time-diagram has infinity symbols in all three corners, then evolution ought to occur somewhere (and be made of energymass in spacetime, while being separate/distinct in a single intertwined Reality).
Most creation-myths have a quite simple (one-pillared) and mundane story: for example genesis just states that God created Reality (that of which all is part) in 6 days and rested on the 7
th
. The scientific rival to all such creation stories is a three-pillared theory – we can´t make it any simpler (we can´t make it one-pillared) and the same would be the case on exoplanets: they too can only break it down to three interconnected ideas/pillars/fundaments, so in thinking this way we share a common intellectual history with exoplanet civilizations advanced enough to figure out this existential theory.
On a test on this subject a question might be: “what are the three pillars of the existential theory?” – the question can´t be “what is the most important pillar in the existential theory?” All pillars are equally important but constitute as distinct ideas as E=mc
2
is from infinite size, or the separation-intertwinedness-opposition (fig. 3).
This three-pillared creation story – the sum of these three chapters – is built upon logic: it includes certain truths like “I think and I exist” (distinction/separation), its opposite (Reality for which we have three proofs for that it can´t be observed/seen/contemplated i.e. the size-time-diagram is infinite), E=mc
2
which unifies nothing/spacetime with existence/energymass, and the relationship between any two sizes (justification along the infinite size-range). Every one of these ideas relates very closely to Descartes´ certain truth, meaning we can be sure of the ideas themselves – and they together build up a minimalist existential theory which needs no further logic to explain everything there is.
Having an infinite size-range has a predictive quality to it too – it makes a prediction: there ought to be evolution (a mass that assembles surrounding mass into a similar mass) somewhere in the diversity we see throughout even the known size-range.
Though as non-intuitive as the 3-pillar existential theory may be to our evolved brains who want a single conclusion, exoplanet civilizations have the same limits and biases as us: they too are stuck with three pillars in a single theory to make the theory explainable. Science is creating universal (exoplanet) neural pathways in our brains. We should embrace the fact that by being non-intuitive but true, this science wires our brain based on science and thus universally. It is the way (the wiring) that all planets are headed to if they´re into science. It´s a universal world-view. We´re thinking like aliens.
In current scientific debates the religious will argue that faith (in a dogma) is needed to (what they call) “understand” the existence of the universe. If confronted with my theory (these lectures) they´d have to agree that logic makes their God unnecessary as a pillar of creation. In the best case scenario God is simply a synonym for Reality (because Reality is “that of which all is part” and thus God ought to be part of it too, and all we know about Reality is that it is energymass in spacetime and separation in intertwinedness).
Having an explanation – the negative side of it is it being three-pillared and unintuitive, the positive side of it being that it accounts for all of Reality and predicts evolution – further justifies the saying “a God of the gaps” (meaning the more we understand the less we need God). Now all that remains to be understood – again in an unintuitive but identical to exoplanets -way – is how, on an infinite time-line, the Big Bang (denseness) recreates and fades away into sparseness (black holes removing energymass and dark energy creating more space until no galaxies are anymore visible).
Lecture 4
The beginning of the Big Bang
I have a hard time imagining how the universe can reach complete emptiness, but it wouldn´t be the first time the universe´s nature surpasses human intuition. In the history of science stars were observed to not move relative to one another on the night sky, and this was argued to prove that the size of the universe was much smaller than the now known size – it was argued that the universe would be “unreasonably big” if the stars didn´t seem to move relative to one another as the earth moved because they were so far away.
If only enough time is needed for the universe to become empty, then we get the starting scenario which is most reasonable: we start with emptiness (spacetime). Again, spacetime is emptier than our concept for it because we (and our concepts) are made of energymass.
If you move your hand one meter (from position 1 to position 2), the laws of nature that make your hand make sense were already in place in the space of position 2 before you moved your hand there. It´s not like the universe/spacetime was absurd in location 2 and only started to make sense regarding hands when you moved your hand there. We do not impact the laws of nature in such ways; instead the laws of nature are simultaneously and equally true at all locations and all times. In other words: Pythagoras’s theorem is true even in locations where there are no objects whatsoever, but the theorem is only applicable (to be applied) to triangles. In empty space there are no objects and thus no triangles, but Pythagoras´s theorem is true there anyhow – it does not suddenly become true (switch from being untrue to true) when a triangle is imagined or physically moved there. This applies to E=mc
2
too, which is just as much of a law of nature as Pythagoras´s theorem. E=mc
2
is true everywhere and always, though humans only apply (use) the equation in certain scenarios. Where triangles can be (in spacetime) there is also E=mc
2
. Laws of nature are fundamental and inherent in spacetime and do not come about depending on events (though our application/use of any particular equation is dependent on which event we´re analyzing).
There is distinction between the practical use of equations (to solve problems or understand a phenomenon) and the core nature of spacetime having laws of nature in it. Spacetime is a no-nonsense spacetime – we live in a rational (laws of nature-abiding) universe.
One law being E=mc
2
and another one being “if it is said it must exist” (meaning energymass can´t be mentioned in the laws of nature of spacetime without energymass existing), we get spacetime to summon energymass if the starting-point was complete emptiness. “If energymass is mentioned it must be summoned” (it is mentioned in E=mc
2
) is true because it would be a nonsense universe if it “talks” about energymass without there being any – just infinite space for eternity with laws of nature regarding energymass, but never any energymass appearing/being present. It would be a nonsense universe if energymass it mentioned but never exists. It would be akin to the universe telling lies (having all these rules like E=mc
2
but never applying them to anything), or the universe babbling gibberish (having inapplicable laws of nature).
Thus, E=mc
2
being a core property of spacetime itself and the “no gibberish”-rule applying, energymass must logically be summoned – but how and where? Extremely dense i.e. everywhere, in the smallest spaces, simultaneously. Why? Our starting-point is spacetime, which needs no prior justification because it is the opposite of existence: it doesn´t exist – it is emptier than our neurons make it out to be. In it Einstein´s theory of relativity is true, meaning that there is no center point (or in other words: all points are the center) so there is no center to the Big Bang. Another way of seeing it is that as soon as there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification), E=mc
2
became true in all locations (in the smallest spaces) simultaneously – no point in space was before another in having E=mc
2
be true in it. Spacetime having E=mc
2
as a core property has E=mc
2
be true everywhere simultaneously; once we have the launching-condition of empty spacetime, through E=mc
2
, energymass is summoned everywhere simultaneously.
This “everywhere” is all things within an event horizon, meaning that things moving away faster than the speed of light (due to dark energy/accelerating cosmic expansion) are not within our event
horizon: they are not part of what can be reasonably called “our 3-dimensional space” (from our location). Things are not part of our universe once their speed hits faster than the speed of light – and many locations, within the boundaries of their respective event horizons, will one day have all energymass moving away from them at speeds faster than the speed of light (this is just the observed fact of accelerating cosmic expansion). Such a finite space with no energymass within its event horizon (all energymass moving away faster than the speed of light) would constitute “completely empty space” i.e. our starting-point for the Big Bang (energymass being summoned due to E=mc
2
).
Consider an infinite size-range - it is made of energymasspacetime: if we draw it as the Y-axis on a diagram, there can´t be a region/length in it (such as the knowable size-range) which is completely empty forever. See fig. 6.
Because of the rules E=mc
2
and “if it is mentioned it must be summoned”/”no-nonsense universe” are true throughout the infinite size-range, there can´t be a region with just spacetime (with its laws of nature) because the laws of spacetime mention energymass; spacetime is inherently tied to and intertwined with energymass – existence and non-existence go together (at all sizes). There would be no logical breaking-point (a particular size) where energymasspacetime transitions into being just spacetime for a range of sizes and then transitions back into energymasspacetime; there is no logical breaking-point where the implications of E=mc
2
(the implication being: energymass and spacetime are in the same equation) stop to be true. The transition seen in fig. 6 is impossible (there is no “empty region”). Having an empty region would be akin to zooming into the decimals of pi and seeing no numbers for a specific array of decimals: 3.14159ÄÄÄÄ265359... The Ä´s can´t be there: it´s a continuous sequence of decimal numbers. There is no break/”empty region” in the continuous decimals of pi just as there is no region of the size-range that can be empty of energymass.
In this chapter I´ve written something akin to “
first
there was spacetime (which needs no prior justification unless you consider that the size-axis of the size-time-diagram is infinite),
then
there was E=mc
2
,
then
there was energymass summoned into the smallest spaces available (available = considered to be within an event horizon and empty)”. This harkens back to previous lectures´ talk about “alien logic” (how exoplanets think). To have it make sense to our brains we use the time-
distinctions “first, then and then” but the real distinction is not in time but in steps in a sequence of logic. In other words all the mentioned steps happened simultaneously to start the Big Bang: E=mc
2
was true as soon as there was spacetime, and as soon as there was that, energymass appeared as not to make the universe absurd (by it talking gibberish or it having an empty region like in fig. 6).
The end of the Big Bang
Telescopes observe that “space is being born” i.e. that the distances between clumps of energymass (galaxies) are getting larger, and at an accelerating pace too. Not only does the Hubble law state that an object a
million light
-
years
away would be receding from us at 21 km/sec and at double the distance twice the speed, but the law states that that speed (for example 21 km/sec a million light years away) is increasing. This is called accelerating cosmic expansion. It means that from our galaxy, when/if we look into the sky trillions of years in the future, we´d see no trace of any other galaxy let alone the cosmic microwave background (because their speeds have passed the speed of light and thus went beyond the event horizon). Once that object a million light years away from us which today is racing away at 21 km/sec reaches 299792 km/sec (the speed of light), it will pass from being within our event horizon to being outside our sphere of events.
This empties our universe or as Hitchens put it: “nothingness is coming”. Once that nothingness comes we have our starting point where we run through the logic of E=mc
2
–> “if it is mentioned it must exist/be summoned” (in order for the universe not to talk gibberish or the infinite size-range not to have a break in it) –> energymass begins as dense (because of relativity and because E=mc
2
is true everywhere simultaneously/equally).
We observe that nothingness (within event horizons) is coming, and beginning from nothingness there is unintuitive logic that has a predictive quality to it: the Big Bang should start dense. This theory works well with lecture 2´s proofs for that “there is more to Reality than can be represented” (the size-time-diagram is infinite) because size is essentially space, and space and time are intertwined into a single spacetime – hence: if size/space is infinite then time must be infinite too. In other words we have reoccurring Big Bangs interspersed along the time-axis of our size-time-diagram. As soon as a region bound by an event horizon becomes empty we have the universe´s no-nonsense-laws kicking in and E=mc
2
summons energymass (in the smallest sizes that are empty equally/simultaneously).
The sequence of consecutive Big Bangs´ beginnings (emptiness leading to energymass being summoned) and ends (accelerating cosmic expansion speeding things past a point´s event horizon and emptiness being summoned) are as infinite as the time-axis proved to be based on lecture 2´s proofs. Proving (in lecture 2) that spacetime is infinite fits perfectly with the reoccurring Big Bangs (when somethingness becomes emptiness and then emptiness summons somethingness).
There will in other words, between the beginning of a Big Bang and the end of that same Big Bang, be life within the conscious/human size-range (the different locations of that size already being infinitely many, see fig. 4).
Each size along the size-axis is defined as “3-dimensional infinite space” meaning there is infinitely much life with access to universal science (i.e. some version of this lecture-series), and within our region (bound by an event horizon) there is life between the beginning and end of Big Bangs. In addition I have hard to believe that a reproducing shape (and thus evolution) only occurs in only
one
size-range (the, for humans, knowable size-range) in an infinite size-range: there ought to be many sub-size-ranges as part of the infinite size-range where evolution occurs and can reach scientific knowledge. All life mentioned above, if they reach scientific understanding, would concur on the existential theory presented in these lectures (especially lecture 3 – the three pillars/foundations/ideas which together become a minimalist theory for why there is the infinite size-range of energymasspacetime in the first place).
This is not only exoplanet science – it is science between Big Bangs and it is science in regions of the size-axis far away (in size) from our knowable size-range. See fig. 7.
Summary
First we looked at Descartes’ ”thought exists” and ”the self exists”, claimed that it was two valid statements and pointed out the distinction between them. On the other side of the paper we wanted to represent anti-distinction (the opposite of distinction) defined as “that of which all is part” (Reality), and realized that since thinker/thought is stuck on the left side of the paper we can’t represent Reality. This is not only Kant’s “the thing is not the thing itself (the mental map is not the real territory)” but more importantly whatever cannot be taken to represent “that of which all is part” i.e. there is infinitely much to Reality.
All we know about Reality (atoms, humans, galaxies) fit into a size-time-diagram (every object has a size and a time), so the minimalist approach combining the above paragraph with this one is to use the first paragraph to prove that the size-time diagram has infinite
axes. This in turn leads to an existential theory which can be summed up as “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime” – and it has a predictive quality to it: somewhere in such an existence there would be a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape and thus we get reproduction/evolution.
So far we’ve looked at the theory of why size itself exists, why there is something rather than nothing – an existential theory beginning from certain truth and logically building its way up all the way to predicting evolution.
Part 2: Evolution
My explanation of evolution focuses on how important disease and bullying (power) was for evolution.
Power
means that
fish
were
fighting fish breeding more agressive fish = dinosaurs, then wolfpacks with an alpha male.
But even before and after those eras in evolution the rule of power was in play.
In part one we had an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime (including the intertwinedness-separation-opposition and the time-axis with repeating Big Bangs perpendicular to the size-axis) that predicts a reproducing shape i.e. a shape that assembles surrounding mass into a similar shape: reproduction in an infinite size-range.
This infinite size-range predicts reproduction.
Part one was about why there is a sizescale of energymasspacetime: the answers are that the sizescale is infinite and that energymass is in spacetime. It predicts that there should be a reproducing shape: say that it is a triangle which gathers surrounding lines into a similar triangle – then it has reproduced itself. The products of this reproduction obey three rules: directly when there was reproduction three rules came into play, I´ve listed them below as 1, 2, 3 but they are not in order (they came simultaneously):
1:
There is life and death: those who survive survive and those who die are not in the game anymore. “The surviving survive”. It´s so simple – we see it in everyday life today. But everything in evolution will come back to these three rules so we might as well do the banal and bring them up.
So directly when there was a reproducing shape - so in our part of the size-range a DNA-strand which split in the middle and became two DNA-strands – the copy either survived or died.
2: The second rule is that the number of offspring has significance. That is to say: if you get one child or five children or ten children, there is a difference between those numbers – and in evolution it´s a benefit to have more children. One can also have zero children, and that is approximately like being dead.
Some would say that evolution´s meaning (the main task of life) is to make more offspring – that it´s the scientific meaning of life – Nature´s meaning: to reproduce. But I would answer that evolution makes more offspring (that´s reproduction) and making more offspring gives evolutionary benefits, but Nature itself does not care – it does not care about whether we nuke ourselves or not. There is no God that looks upon us and cares. Even reproduction becomes meaningless in the larger perspective. But in evolution it has significance whether one has zero offspring or ten offspring.
Rule number two (number of offspring matters) just as simple as rule number 1 (that there is life and death; that some live and some die).
The third rule that appered... – well all three rules appeared simultaneously directly when there was reproduction in this sizerange. The third rule is that:
3: There is mutation in every generation-shift. Things change. It doesn’t make perfect copies. Your child (if you have one) is not an exact copy of yourself or your wife – it’s a mutation; a change.
These three rules – 1: that there is life and death, the surviving survive. 2: That there are different nuances in the number of offspring. 3: That there is mutation in every generation-shift – these three rules came into play directly when the first reproduction occurred. We will return to these three rules over and over again; they are like laws of nature that like God says shall work on life directly when the first life reproduces itself. These laws of nature didn’t exist before the first life reproduced itself – they were not active then. They became active directly when there was reproduction.
These are abstract laws that we will manufacture, then we have the physical reality of that in a puddle of water a strand of DNA – a cell – made copies/offspring. Then viruses came into the game and injected its own DNA into the ordinary cells, that is to say: hijacked their reproductive system to create virus-offspring. If this would´ve continued the ocean would´ve been filled with only viruses, so there has to be some next step which made it so that our type of life survived. But the viruses added a 4
th
law (one of these abstract laws)
and that is: if you can hijack someone else’s reproductive system to create your own offspring; if you can inject your DNA into somebody else´s cell so that it creates viruses – I call this “power”. We will return to this word when we for example look at dinosaurs (they became bigger because the men killed each other to get the women whom make offspring). This power-principle was one that came after the three first ones.
The first cells reproduced and we had these three rules, then viruses came and injected their DNA and used “power” to produce more viruses. Then we get an immune-system which kills viruses i.e. protects the original organism´s reproductive system from being hijacked by viruses. So the immune-system evolved to take back the reproductive principle (2: the number of offspring matters); for the fact that one should retain the reproductive capability for oneself – so that no virus can take it over. So power has a lot to do with the number of offspring – principle 4 has a lot to do with principle 2.
We have multicellular organisms with immune-systems, we have viruses around them – and it´s an arms-race between that the viruses mutate to overcome the immune-system and the immune-
system mutates to overcome the virus. Thus we have an evolutionary pressure on mutating the immune-system as much as possible as fast as possible (because the viruses mutate very quickly), and the best way to do that is to combine genes from two different organisms: a man and a woman. So sex has its beginning in viruses.
If this doesn´t make you feel comfortable contemplate this: the truth outweighs positive-thinking. But does one want to remove whatever spreads joy among people? Those who want to defeat the religious violence in the world (I think religion is the biggest unnecessary cause of hatred in the world) – one cannot defeat that without defeating all religiousness simultaneously. To want to defeat one part of religion but not the rest of it is like voting for the Republicans and Democrats simultaneously – it´s just unreal. Sadly one must remove the good to remove the evil. Meditation still remains and one can get a kind of anxietylessness from some thoughts still but in the big picture there are no reasons that support them anymore – it´s just a brain-trick that one does.
In our evolutionary story we had an immune-system which mutates, wants more mutations – we get two genders. Then men begin to war with each other (because, metaphorically speaking, women can produce offspring once a year while men can produce it every day – we have an imbalance; asymmetry). Why is it always men that start wars? It began with the first fish – we had multicellular life in our story so far, so they became a bit bigger, could swim around – we get fish: it´s easier to find food then and easier to move around. Directly when there were two genders there was one fish which evolved to use its teeth for killing other male fish. The first aggressor of course got the most offspring because there were no other men around. That´s why men go to war: they can produce offspring with so many women while a woman has no benefit from having 1000 men.
There´s a caveat to
this once we get to caveman tribes/wolf-packs where a woman secretly wants many men to provide resources to her child, but at least in the era between fish and dinosaurs the picture was simply based on asymmetric reproductive rates.
So then the male fish grow more aggressive, the child who is the biggest and has the sharpest teeth kills the other male fish, has the most offspring; and in the next generation, again: the child with the most aggression and biggest muscles gets the most offspring – that´s how we get to dinosaurs and T-rex. We had males competing/fighting with each other and that´s why T-rex is so large. That is, again, the power-principle: just like viruses took over the reproductive system from the first cells, T-rex takes away the reproductive system from his rivals by killing them. So this principle number 4 (power) lives on – it has caused/causes so much: it causes the first viruses, it causes T-rex, that fish become aggressive, that we get two genders (by viruses getting power – so we wanted to counter that power by immune-systems i.e. two genders).
These dinosaurs then, just like humans don´t seem to have (sarcasm), any concept of preserving natural resources – so they would´ve eaten up all their trees and not had any food left. But on our planet it seems to have been a meteor-strike which wiped them out, but on exoplanets i.e. overall in this evolutionary series of evolutionary pressures causing various principles (first the three first principles, then the 4
th
principle, immune-systems, two-genderedness, bigger
fish, fights between the fish, dinosaurs). The dinosaurs ate their natural resources and all large life dies - so only small rat-like/squirrel-like life-forms live on.
The trees grow back up – we get monkeys.
Groups tend to, in a fight – if it´s a group against an individual (one against many) – the group tends to win. So we monkeys form groups, fighting together for food against individualists. The individualists lost.
So we got this - or had it from the get-go (just like with the first aggressors) – instinct that makes us want to be highest in the hierarchy and thereby get all the women. Power again. But this time it´s a kind of human power – we saw power when viruses took over the reproductive systems, we saw power when dinosaurs outcompeted their rivals (the men), we see power when a bully goes to the top of the hierarchy, pushes down the other men – and the women want the bully´s resources (he has the most stuff) so they´re attracted to him, so he gets the most offspring – out of his offspring the one that is best at getting power the one that gets most offspring.
The reason for why the brain grew so fast during the past 100 000 years was because we used the brain to plan for how to climb upward in the hierarchy. The reproductive benefits coming from being high-status in the hierarchy were so great comparing to being low-status that this put great selection-pressure on bigger brains.
Now we basically have caveman living in hierarchical societies, we have kings, aristocrats and slaves – and that is how the world was 5000 years ago. The kings build monumental architecture (pyramids and such). Then someone focused on a random word – so someone focused on what we talked about in part 1: Reality (that of which all is part) and realized one cannot see it (because we should be part of it, or the other two proofs for not being able to see all there is to Reality) and thus they invented the word God: it is one, one cannot see it – we have the dawn of monotheism.
Someone random-focused on the word “soul/self” too and realized one gets less anxiety by making a distinction between the body
one sees in ones imaginations
21.12
Author
yonis
Posted on
30/11/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Latest version of my book
Del 2: Evolutionsteorin
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/del2-interse-evolution.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
14/11/2016
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Del 2: Evolutionsteorin
Posts navigation
Page
1
Page
2
Next page
Search for:
Search
Recent Posts
Talet 3
Sammanfattning universell kurs interse 11-01-2017
From Certain Truth to Dinosaurs (with Maan and Marwan)
War and Boredom
2 Nobel Prizes
Recent Comments
Archives
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
January 2016
Categories
Dagbok
Old
The book + diagrams
Trashcan
Trey
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.org
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Proudly powered by WordPress

Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen – Teach what you study here to end religious wars
Skip to content
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Teach what you study here to end religious wars
New book (4)
To help & show solidarity toward soldiers…
They´re fighting religious wars where the assumption is that God created earth & gave a violent revalation to prophet Muhammed…
If another theory is proposed to explain why Reality was created & how/why humans came to exist, then the violent revalation & holy war end.
The course which teaches this must be as a universal curriculum designed to maximally convince.
It has two starting points:
certain truth (agreement on that we think & we exist)
Nothing (which “doesn’t exist” or exists a-priori (without previous further necessary explanation)).
The fastest way to help soldiers using a universal all-convincing course is like listening to rap music: I’ll connect concepts in a sequence so fast you’ll:
miss alot the first time you isten
listen to it multiple times to catch something new every time
see that I use different ways to present the same set of concept
There are three groups of people:
the intellectuals whom learn for learning’s sake
those who take the moral argument of having solidarity with soldiers (that it’s more moral to drive a car after a bottle of vodka than to not save soldiers’ lives by teaching a course)
those who have to be schooled by an authority.
Have you asked something about:
what God is?
I can tell you everything about God.
First of all: there are two intellectual traditions: the unbound creativity of romanticism & cold rationality. If I were writing in the romantical tradition I would spend effort writing beautiful confusing metaphors and sagas – the opposite of which is like PowerPoint bulletpoints with facts & concepts about God. This is about seeking truth in the rational manner – analysis (thought-through argument) over spontaneous gambling.
I try to create a true argument that can be pumped out of propaganda-loud speakers at ISIS, Boko Haram, Al-Shabaan, Al-Qaida, the taliban etc.
If I can tell enough rationality about their God then their fighting-morality, group-loyalty, mission and cohesion disintegrates.
What I produce is kind of as learning-intensive as the theory of relativity, but if put on loud-speakers on the religious wars’ front-lines is more powerful than any cannon.
My canon that outperforms any cannon is a theory/understanding that can be taught in limitlessly many ways – I might have 5000 concepts and you can talk them in any sequence which gives X many courses that teach my theory/science/world-view.
Instead of teaching the science in a random order, can we derive from logic some starting points for the course (making the curriculum scientific/universal)? Yes – 2 starting points akin to that it is scientific/universal to teach history chronologically.
The two starting points are Nothingness and “I think & I am”.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
The next conclusion – the next step on a logical progression – along the ”I think & I am”-path is that there is distinction. There is distinction between thinker and thought. We listed two conclusions – right? – I think AND I exist. Distinction is the separation between thinker & thought. Distinction exists and is a legitimate word.
The conclusion following along the Nothingness-path is that there are laws of nature i.e. Nothingness is non-absurd. As an example: Nothingness would be absurd i.e. it is not true that a thing is not itself i.e. that 1 is not 1 . It’s not like 1=2 now, but now 1=3, and now 1=254. Laws of nature such as 1=1 are stable over time and do not change. Another law of nature that makes the universe non-absurd is that a triangle is not a sphere (geometric truths). Another law of nature, necessary for a rational cosmos, is E=mc
2
.
The next step along the “think & I am”-path is that the distinction exists in something (or nothing). There is one “that of which all is part”, called anti-distinction, in which distinction exists. Reality is one.
The next step along the “Nothingness – E=mc
2
”-path is that there is a law of nature that states, in order for the universe to be non-absurd, that: “if something, say E=m, is mentioned then it must also [exist/be summoned]”. It would be absurd for Nothingness to state “E=mc
2
” forever without E=m (energymass) ever existing.
Footnote: E=mc
2
– the summoning of energymass – is summoned in the smallest spaces simultaneously resulting in a
dense
Big Bang.
Sub-footnote: I drop Nobel prizes like they were growing on trees: the rationale for how to get from Nothingness to Something and the prediction that the Big Bang should be dense is valuable knowledge.
The next step along the “I think & I am”-path is that observation/representation is distinction. This is a repetition of the step where we said “distinction is a legitimate word i.e. there are
both
thinker AND thought”. We, as observers/representers, are in the distinction-realm – as opposed to the anti-distinction-realm – when we observe/represent/always. This means that we, due to distinction – anti-distinction – opposition, do not see [“that of which all is part”/Reality].
The next step in the Nothingness-path is that there is not just one size. There is a range of sizes – each with energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
) – large to small / small to large. Size & time are connected as spacetime. Everything/anything we know about has a size and a time.
The next step along the I think & I am –path is that, since we do not see Reality (that of which all is part) there is more to Reality than can be [known/distinctly made sense of/hypothesized]. Based on the conclusion that everything has a size & time, there must be more sizes & times than can be hypothesized.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
I switch between the two in a universal way.
I can’t do more universal than tasking the two starts of a universal course and intertwining the logical steps step by step.
Author
yonis
Posted on
07/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on New book (4)
If you eradicate religion from the face of the earth then theres not as much to build little militant enclaves around. Group-bonding will be based on friendships, companies and governments – not religious affiliations. Eradicating religion breaks down something evil at the core of human beings.
If religion is eradicated then there is no pretext such as jihad for mere power/resource-grabbing, revenge, hybris etc. The true purpose of future wars will be clearer, blatant and more awkward if religion is out of the way.
Then we have those few terrorist nutcases who actually believe in (violent) religion and they need to be reached by my teaching.
Author
yonis
Posted on
04/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
Solidarity with soldiers
Author
yonis
Posted on
03/02/2017
03/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Solidarity with soldiers
Solidarity with soldiers
Author
yonis
Posted on
02/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Solidarity with soldiers
Universal course has 3 beginnings leading up to DNA
Author
yonis
Posted on
01/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Universal course has 3 beginnings leading up to DNA
Religious war
Author
yonis
Posted on
01/02/2017
01/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Religious war
Interse 25 01 2017 (15 mins)
Everyone agrees they they themselves exist, because if one would get fooled in everyone one can be fooled in then one would exist there anyway and be fooled. So one knows that one exists. Then one also knows that one thinks because “to get fooled” is a thought-process. Thus we have two things: I think and I exist. And the distinction between them: and on the flipside of the paper we have the opposite of that: anti-distinction, and this can also be called “that of which all is part”/Reality. And since we are in the distinction-side of the paper when we see something; when we see something there is distinction between us and that thing. Thus we cannot represent or see that which is on the other side of the paper i.e. that of which all is part / Reality. Nothing can represent – because it is distinct – Reality. So whatever which is distinct cannot… whatever that is observed or represented is distinct and therefore is not… therefore does not represent Reality / “that of which all is part”. So we have distinction and anti-distinction as opposing poles.
This leads to that there is more to Reality than we can represent; or that anything can represent – be it a computer or a coffee-cup or whatever. And if there is more to Reality and what we know about Reality is that it comes as a size-time-diagram…; that there are sizes and times. One can draw it as a diagram with size on one axis and time on the other, then there is more to that diagram than we can represent. In other words the sizerange is infinite and the size-axis is infinite. We can think about a bigger size than  the largest we know and then we are representing it – we have a hypothesis about it. And even in that case it is true that we are on the distinction-side of the paper, we are representing (which includes distinction) and therefore there is even more than we can even hypothesize about (regarding Reality).
In an infinite sizerange of infinitely much time there ought to be a little DNA-strand which reproduces itself; i.e. if the sizerange is infinite from quantum physics to cosmology and infinitely much past the largest and the smallest then there is a DNA-strand somewhere in that infinity. Thus we have reached DNA from certain truth: from that we think and we exist, to distinction, to anti-distinction, to that there is more to Reality than we can observe/represent and therefore there is more to the size-axis than we can hypothesize, and therefore there is a DNA-strand.
The second way of coming to the DNA-strand from a good beginning is that we start with nothing. In nothing – empty space… which is emptier than our neurons think of it as. We are made of energymass, we are made of something so we have a hard time representing nothing; nothing is emptier than we represent it as. In this nothing there are laws of nature such as 1 is 1; it is not absurd: it is not so that right now 1=1, but now 1 is 2, and now 1 is 155, but instead one always equals one. Such laws of nature are built-in into nothing. The law of nature that a triangle is not a sphere. Another law of nature is E=mc
2
– that energymass is found in the same equation as spacetime is found in – and spacetime is again that nothingness (and it is joined together with energymass in E=mc
2
). So we get something from nothing, that is to say something and nothing are intertwined and it is the laws of nature between them which makes it so that one can logically say that “in nothing exists E=mc
2
, E=mc
2
mentions energymass/existence, and therefore existence much exist because nothing cannot mention existence without existence existing. This existence then comes as an infinite sizerange and then we arrive at the DNA-strand again: that it ought to exist as existence in an infinite sizerange.
We have started with nothing, went to the laws of nature, to E=mc
2
which mentions energymass and thus energymass has to exist because if it is mentioned then it must also exist (otherwise it’d be absurd). And thus we reach the DNA-strand from nothing.
The third way of beginning this course with is that we have three pillars to the existential theory: we have an infinite sizerange, of energymasspacetime (something & nothing),  and we have this left-and-right-side-of-the-paper (distinction & anti-distinction). In an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime and distinction- anti-distinction –opposition.
All of these three roads, that is to say: I think and I exist; nothing and the 3 pillars to the existential theory leads to the three pillars of the existential theory (that there is an infinite sizerange and therefore a DNA-strand). And when there is a DNA-strand / when there is reproduction with the DNA-strand, then there is 1) survival and death (the ones who survive survive and go forward in evolution), and the 2)nd principle that the number of offspring has significance (that there is a difference between 0 or 1 or 5 or 10 offspring in evolution), and the 3)rd principle is that there is mutation in each generation-shift (that parents are different from their young, that the DNA-strand mutates over time).
When we get to dinosaurs we’ll get to how cortex (the flexible part of the brain) started in birds in order to adapt the brain to the body, so that if the bird was born with a too short wing then the brain could sense that “my body is like this” “so I should fly in another way than if my wings were of equal length”. It adapts the brain to the body and learns to fly normally even if it is hurted or something similar. So we have a flexible part of the brain which starts thus.
Then, after a while, evolves a function where we have two brain-halves: one visual and one linguistic with serotonine (which activates various thoughts, and if a sequence of though leads to some evolutionary benefit (that is: if one’s plan is completeable and leads to happiness) then it is marked with dopamine (as important) and then one continues: serotonine – planning different ways from it and if a way works it is marked with dopamine). This function of having two brain-halves with serotonine and dopamine evolved as a function to let us for example plan our way upward in the hierarchy and therefore get the largest number of offspring. It was a function which was evolutionarily useful.
The 2
nd
function in the brain is classed into three categories: the homeostatic (the internal (hunger and thirst etc), they have to do with the body internally and are a medium-sized category, a medium-sized number of these that are in the body), then there are very many that have to do with our senses (if we see a snake, if we see a squirrel, if we see this or that… and how we react to hearing noises from the bushes (we get anxiety because it’s a tiger)) – there are alot of these social/external which we are made aware of through our senses (so it’s a larger category than the homeostatic one). And a third last tiny category is that which we do when we don’t have any homeostatic or social/external which is interesting, and that is that which we do when we are idle. And that is to plan how to get friends, how to get power, how one gets resources (money), one advances one’s world-view (curiosity), plans reproduction – and those are the approximately 5 things we tend to do when we don’t have anything ongoing. So a little category of those things we do when we are idle.
There is the utilitarian principle that “people seek happiness”, we want to create happiness: and evolution has made us so that we maximize these reproductive benefits (like survival, reproduction and power-seeking and security and expanding one’s world-view). We always maximize them so maybe we don’t have the happiest emotions that the universe allows to have in one’s brain, but instead we have the most maximizing emotions. We have an emotional repertoire which maximizes our chances in evolution. But when we learn more about DNA and how DNA creates the brain, one can create a brain in a jar which has the maximum-happiness-emotions instead of evolutionarily maximizing (greed and such). So I think that the future – since we have this utilitarian principle that we want to maximize happiness – we will create a brain using DNA-engineering which is maximally happy – it needs no body to be that but it can be a brain in a jar which is maximally happy. I think we will create those and they will remain for millions of years, but humanity seems to pollute its planet and finish its oil so in 100 years maybe it starts to go downward for us humans. We finish the planet – the oil doesn’t come back and the pollution remains, so every planet’s (in the infinite universe) history culminates in having a short period of oil (a few hundred years) and then we have these brains which are super-happy in their jars for millions of years. It’s a little bit South Park / Futurama over the whole thing – it’s cartoonish that we create a farm with brains in jars which are the happiest that there is and we humans finish the oil and do ordinary human things. That is the future.
But I thought that this course, in itself, this order in which I’ve presented the ideas; that that setup is universal (they teach the same course on other planets). They begin with the three different beginnings to the course (I think & I exist, distinction & anti-distinction, that it leads to that there is more to Reality than we can know – more sizes – and therefore there ought to be a DNA-strand), or that there is nothing (laws of nature, the laws of nature mention energymass and thus energymass has to exist) and then it leads to a DNA-strand, or that we have 3 pillars (an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime and distinction-anti-distinction-opposition) and that leads to these three pillars which leads to these three principles in the evolurionary theory (that those who survive survive, the number of offspring matters and there is mutation in each generation-shift); then comes cortex which begins by adapting the brain to the animal, and then that it is used to climb up in the hierarchy (for example) – how one gets friends, how one makes different plans… – and therefore comes this left-right-brainhalf with serotonine and dopamine (that function) comes into the game and the one who has the largest brain plans his or her way to the top over millions of years (and this is why the brain grew): because we planned, we are planning animals. And then it ends with that we DNA-engineer brains which are super-happy in their jars, and finish the oil and pollute the planet. And this ought to be how every planets’ history goes and the course itself is taught and exists on other planets too so they teach exactly the same curriculum (so there are infinitely many planets with the same text that we just made).
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/ZOOM0001_01.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
25/01/2017
25/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Interse 25 01 2017 (15 mins)
Talet 3
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/talet-3.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
17/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Talet 3
Sammanfattning universell kurs interse 11-01-2017
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/sammanfattning-universell-kurs-interse-11-01-2017.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
11/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Sammanfattning universell kurs interse 11-01-2017
From Certain Truth to Dinosaurs (with Maan and Marwan)
Author
yonis
Posted on
05/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on From Certain Truth to Dinosaurs (with Maan and Marwan)
Posts navigation
Page
1
Page
2
Page
3
Next page
Search for:
Search
Recent Posts
New book (4)
694
Solidarity with soldiers
Solidarity with soldiers
Universal course has 3 beginnings leading up to DNA
Recent Comments
Archives
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
January 2016
Categories
Dagbok
Old
The book + diagrams
Trashcan
Trey
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.org
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Proudly powered by WordPress

Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen – Teach what you study here to end religious wars
Skip to content
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Teach what you study here to end religious wars
New book (4)
To help & show solidarity toward soldiers…
They´re fighting religious wars where the assumption is that God created earth & gave a violent revalation to prophet Muhammed…
If another theory is proposed to explain why Reality was created & how/why humans came to exist, then the violent revalation & holy war end.
The course which teaches this must be as a universal curriculum designed to maximally convince.
It has two starting points:
certain truth (agreement on that we think & we exist)
Nothing (which “doesn’t exist” or exists a-priori (without previous further necessary explanation)).
The fastest way to help soldiers using a universal all-convincing course is like listening to rap music: I’ll connect concepts in a sequence so fast you’ll:
miss alot the first time you isten
listen to it multiple times to catch something new every time
see that I use different ways to present the same set of concept
There are three groups of people:
the intellectuals whom learn for learning’s sake
those who take the moral argument of having solidarity with soldiers (that it’s more moral to drive a car after a bottle of vodka than to not save soldiers’ lives by teaching a course)
those who have to be schooled by an authority.
Have you asked something about:
what God is?
I can tell you everything about God.
First of all: there are two intellectual traditions: the unbound creativity of romanticism & cold rationality. If I were writing in the romantical tradition I would spend effort writing beautiful confusing metaphors and sagas – the opposite of which is like PowerPoint bulletpoints with facts & concepts about God. This is about seeking truth in the rational manner – analysis (thought-through argument) over spontaneous gambling.
I try to create a true argument that can be pumped out of propaganda-loud speakers at ISIS, Boko Haram, Al-Shabaan, Al-Qaida, the taliban etc.
If I can tell enough rationality about their God then their fighting-morality, group-loyalty, mission and cohesion disintegrates.
What I produce is kind of as learning-intensive as the theory of relativity, but if put on loud-speakers on the religious wars’ front-lines is more powerful than any cannon.
My canon that outperforms any cannon is a theory/understanding that can be taught in limitlessly many ways – I might have 5000 concepts and you can talk them in any sequence which gives X many courses that teach my theory/science/world-view.
Instead of teaching the science in a random order, can we derive from logic some starting points for the course (making the curriculum scientific/universal)? Yes – 2 starting points akin to that it is scientific/universal to teach history chronologically.
The two starting points are Nothingness and “I think & I am”.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
The next conclusion – the next step on a logical progression – along the ”I think & I am”-path is that there is distinction. There is distinction between thinker and thought. We listed two conclusions – right? – I think AND I exist. Distinction is the separation between thinker & thought. Distinction exists and is a legitimate word.
The conclusion following along the Nothingness-path is that there are laws of nature i.e. Nothingness is non-absurd. As an example: Nothingness would be absurd i.e. it is not true that a thing is not itself i.e. that 1 is not 1 . It’s not like 1=2 now, but now 1=3, and now 1=254. Laws of nature such as 1=1 are stable over time and do not change. Another law of nature that makes the universe non-absurd is that a triangle is not a sphere (geometric truths). Another law of nature, necessary for a rational cosmos, is E=mc
2
.
The next step along the “think & I am”-path is that the distinction exists in something (or nothing). There is one “that of which all is part”, called anti-distinction, in which distinction exists. Reality is one.
The next step along the “Nothingness – E=mc
2
”-path is that there is a law of nature that states, in order for the universe to be non-absurd, that: “if something, say E=m, is mentioned then it must also [exist/be summoned]”. It would be absurd for Nothingness to state “E=mc
2
” forever without E=m (energymass) ever existing.
Footnote: E=mc
2
– the summoning of energymass – is summoned in the smallest spaces simultaneously resulting in a
dense
Big Bang.
Sub-footnote: I drop Nobel prizes like they were growing on trees: the rationale for how to get from Nothingness to Something and the prediction that the Big Bang should be dense is valuable knowledge.
The next step along the “I think & I am”-path is that observation/representation is distinction. This is a repetition of the step where we said “distinction is a legitimate word i.e. there are
both
thinker AND thought”. We, as observers/representers, are in the distinction-realm – as opposed to the anti-distinction-realm – when we observe/represent/always. This means that we, due to distinction – anti-distinction – opposition, do not see [“that of which all is part”/Reality].
The next step in the Nothingness-path is that there is not just one size. There is a range of sizes – each with energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
) – large to small / small to large. Size & time are connected as spacetime. Everything/anything we know about has a size and a time.
The next step along the I think & I am –path is that, since we do not see Reality (that of which all is part) there is more to Reality than can be [known/distinctly made sense of/hypothesized]. Based on the conclusion that everything has a size & time, there must be more sizes & times than can be hypothesized.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
I switch between the two in a universal way.
I can’t do more universal than tasking the two starts of a universal course and intertwining the logical steps step by step.
Author
yonis
Posted on
07/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on New book (4)
If you eradicate religion from the face of the earth then theres not as much to build little militant enclaves around. Group-bonding will be based on friendships, companies and governments – not religious affiliations. Eradicating religion breaks down something evil at the core of human beings.
If religion is eradicated then there is no pretext such as jihad for mere power/resource-grabbing, revenge, hybris etc. The true purpose of future wars will be clearer, blatant and more awkward if religion is out of the way.
Then we have those few terrorist nutcases who actually believe in (violent) religion and they need to be reached by my teaching.
Author
yonis
Posted on
04/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
Solidarity with soldiers
Author
yonis
Posted on
03/02/2017
03/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Solidarity with soldiers
Solidarity with soldiers
Author
yonis
Posted on
02/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Solidarity with soldiers
Universal course has 3 beginnings leading up to DNA
Author
yonis
Posted on
01/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Universal course has 3 beginnings leading up to DNA
Religious war
Author
yonis
Posted on
01/02/2017
01/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Religious war
Interse 25 01 2017 (15 mins)
Everyone agrees they they themselves exist, because if one would get fooled in everyone one can be fooled in then one would exist there anyway and be fooled. So one knows that one exists. Then one also knows that one thinks because “to get fooled” is a thought-process. Thus we have two things: I think and I exist. And the distinction between them: and on the flipside of the paper we have the opposite of that: anti-distinction, and this can also be called “that of which all is part”/Reality. And since we are in the distinction-side of the paper when we see something; when we see something there is distinction between us and that thing. Thus we cannot represent or see that which is on the other side of the paper i.e. that of which all is part / Reality. Nothing can represent – because it is distinct – Reality. So whatever which is distinct cannot… whatever that is observed or represented is distinct and therefore is not… therefore does not represent Reality / “that of which all is part”. So we have distinction and anti-distinction as opposing poles.
This leads to that there is more to Reality than we can represent; or that anything can represent – be it a computer or a coffee-cup or whatever. And if there is more to Reality and what we know about Reality is that it comes as a size-time-diagram…; that there are sizes and times. One can draw it as a diagram with size on one axis and time on the other, then there is more to that diagram than we can represent. In other words the sizerange is infinite and the size-axis is infinite. We can think about a bigger size than  the largest we know and then we are representing it – we have a hypothesis about it. And even in that case it is true that we are on the distinction-side of the paper, we are representing (which includes distinction) and therefore there is even more than we can even hypothesize about (regarding Reality).
In an infinite sizerange of infinitely much time there ought to be a little DNA-strand which reproduces itself; i.e. if the sizerange is infinite from quantum physics to cosmology and infinitely much past the largest and the smallest then there is a DNA-strand somewhere in that infinity. Thus we have reached DNA from certain truth: from that we think and we exist, to distinction, to anti-distinction, to that there is more to Reality than we can observe/represent and therefore there is more to the size-axis than we can hypothesize, and therefore there is a DNA-strand.
The second way of coming to the DNA-strand from a good beginning is that we start with nothing. In nothing – empty space… which is emptier than our neurons think of it as. We are made of energymass, we are made of something so we have a hard time representing nothing; nothing is emptier than we represent it as. In this nothing there are laws of nature such as 1 is 1; it is not absurd: it is not so that right now 1=1, but now 1 is 2, and now 1 is 155, but instead one always equals one. Such laws of nature are built-in into nothing. The law of nature that a triangle is not a sphere. Another law of nature is E=mc
2
– that energymass is found in the same equation as spacetime is found in – and spacetime is again that nothingness (and it is joined together with energymass in E=mc
2
). So we get something from nothing, that is to say something and nothing are intertwined and it is the laws of nature between them which makes it so that one can logically say that “in nothing exists E=mc
2
, E=mc
2
mentions energymass/existence, and therefore existence much exist because nothing cannot mention existence without existence existing. This existence then comes as an infinite sizerange and then we arrive at the DNA-strand again: that it ought to exist as existence in an infinite sizerange.
We have started with nothing, went to the laws of nature, to E=mc
2
which mentions energymass and thus energymass has to exist because if it is mentioned then it must also exist (otherwise it’d be absurd). And thus we reach the DNA-strand from nothing.
The third way of beginning this course with is that we have three pillars to the existential theory: we have an infinite sizerange, of energymasspacetime (something & nothing),  and we have this left-and-right-side-of-the-paper (distinction & anti-distinction). In an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime and distinction- anti-distinction –opposition.
All of these three roads, that is to say: I think and I exist; nothing and the 3 pillars to the existential theory leads to the three pillars of the existential theory (that there is an infinite sizerange and therefore a DNA-strand). And when there is a DNA-strand / when there is reproduction with the DNA-strand, then there is 1) survival and death (the ones who survive survive and go forward in evolution), and the 2)nd principle that the number of offspring has significance (that there is a difference between 0 or 1 or 5 or 10 offspring in evolution), and the 3)rd principle is that there is mutation in each generation-shift (that parents are different from their young, that the DNA-strand mutates over time).
When we get to dinosaurs we’ll get to how cortex (the flexible part of the brain) started in birds in order to adapt the brain to the body, so that if the bird was born with a too short wing then the brain could sense that “my body is like this” “so I should fly in another way than if my wings were of equal length”. It adapts the brain to the body and learns to fly normally even if it is hurted or something similar. So we have a flexible part of the brain which starts thus.
Then, after a while, evolves a function where we have two brain-halves: one visual and one linguistic with serotonine (which activates various thoughts, and if a sequence of though leads to some evolutionary benefit (that is: if one’s plan is completeable and leads to happiness) then it is marked with dopamine (as important) and then one continues: serotonine – planning different ways from it and if a way works it is marked with dopamine). This function of having two brain-halves with serotonine and dopamine evolved as a function to let us for example plan our way upward in the hierarchy and therefore get the largest number of offspring. It was a function which was evolutionarily useful.
The 2
nd
function in the brain is classed into three categories: the homeostatic (the internal (hunger and thirst etc), they have to do with the body internally and are a medium-sized category, a medium-sized number of these that are in the body), then there are very many that have to do with our senses (if we see a snake, if we see a squirrel, if we see this or that… and how we react to hearing noises from the bushes (we get anxiety because it’s a tiger)) – there are alot of these social/external which we are made aware of through our senses (so it’s a larger category than the homeostatic one). And a third last tiny category is that which we do when we don’t have any homeostatic or social/external which is interesting, and that is that which we do when we are idle. And that is to plan how to get friends, how to get power, how one gets resources (money), one advances one’s world-view (curiosity), plans reproduction – and those are the approximately 5 things we tend to do when we don’t have anything ongoing. So a little category of those things we do when we are idle.
There is the utilitarian principle that “people seek happiness”, we want to create happiness: and evolution has made us so that we maximize these reproductive benefits (like survival, reproduction and power-seeking and security and expanding one’s world-view). We always maximize them so maybe we don’t have the happiest emotions that the universe allows to have in one’s brain, but instead we have the most maximizing emotions. We have an emotional repertoire which maximizes our chances in evolution. But when we learn more about DNA and how DNA creates the brain, one can create a brain in a jar which has the maximum-happiness-emotions instead of evolutionarily maximizing (greed and such). So I think that the future – since we have this utilitarian principle that we want to maximize happiness – we will create a brain using DNA-engineering which is maximally happy – it needs no body to be that but it can be a brain in a jar which is maximally happy. I think we will create those and they will remain for millions of years, but humanity seems to pollute its planet and finish its oil so in 100 years maybe it starts to go downward for us humans. We finish the planet – the oil doesn’t come back and the pollution remains, so every planet’s (in the infinite universe) history culminates in having a short period of oil (a few hundred years) and then we have these brains which are super-happy in their jars for millions of years. It’s a little bit South Park / Futurama over the whole thing – it’s cartoonish that we create a farm with brains in jars which are the happiest that there is and we humans finish the oil and do ordinary human things. That is the future.
But I thought that this course, in itself, this order in which I’ve presented the ideas; that that setup is universal (they teach the same course on other planets). They begin with the three different beginnings to the course (I think & I exist, distinction & anti-distinction, that it leads to that there is more to Reality than we can know – more sizes – and therefore there ought to be a DNA-strand), or that there is nothing (laws of nature, the laws of nature mention energymass and thus energymass has to exist) and then it leads to a DNA-strand, or that we have 3 pillars (an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime and distinction-anti-distinction-opposition) and that leads to these three pillars which leads to these three principles in the evolurionary theory (that those who survive survive, the number of offspring matters and there is mutation in each generation-shift); then comes cortex which begins by adapting the brain to the animal, and then that it is used to climb up in the hierarchy (for example) – how one gets friends, how one makes different plans… – and therefore comes this left-right-brainhalf with serotonine and dopamine (that function) comes into the game and the one who has the largest brain plans his or her way to the top over millions of years (and this is why the brain grew): because we planned, we are planning animals. And then it ends with that we DNA-engineer brains which are super-happy in their jars, and finish the oil and pollute the planet. And this ought to be how every planets’ history goes and the course itself is taught and exists on other planets too so they teach exactly the same curriculum (so there are infinitely many planets with the same text that we just made).
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/ZOOM0001_01.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
25/01/2017
25/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Interse 25 01 2017 (15 mins)
Talet 3
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/talet-3.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
17/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Talet 3
Sammanfattning universell kurs interse 11-01-2017
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/sammanfattning-universell-kurs-interse-11-01-2017.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
11/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Sammanfattning universell kurs interse 11-01-2017
From Certain Truth to Dinosaurs (with Maan and Marwan)
Author
yonis
Posted on
05/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on From Certain Truth to Dinosaurs (with Maan and Marwan)
Posts navigation
Page
1
Page
2
Page
3
Next page
Search for:
Search
Recent Posts
New book (4)
694
Solidarity with soldiers
Solidarity with soldiers
Universal course has 3 beginnings leading up to DNA
Recent Comments
Archives
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
January 2016
Categories
Dagbok
Old
The book + diagrams
Trashcan
Trey
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.org
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Proudly powered by WordPress

Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen – Teach what you study here to end religious wars
Skip to content
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Teach what you study here to end religious wars
New Microsoft Word Document (4)
To help & show solidarity toward soldiers...
They´re fighting religious wars where the assumption is that God created earth & gave a violent revalation to prophet Muhammed...
If another theory is proposed to explain why Reality was created & how/why humans came to exist, then the violent revalation & holy war end.
The course which teaches this must be as a universal curriculum designed to maximally convince.
It has two starting points:
certain truth (agreement on that we think & we exist)
Nothing (which “doesn’t exist” or exists a-priori (without previous further necessary explanation)).
The fastest way to help soldiers using a universal all-convincing course is like listening to rap music: I’ll connect concepts in a sequence so fast you’ll:
miss alot the first time you isten
listen to it multiple times to catch something new every time
see that I use different ways to present the same set of concept
There are three groups of people:
the intellectuals whom learn for learning’s sake
those who take the moral argument of having solidarity with soldiers (that it’s more moral to drive a car after a bottle of vodka than to not save soldiers’ lives by teaching a course)
those who have to be schooled by an authority.
Have you asked something about:
what God is?
I can tell you everything about God.
First of all: there are two intellectual traditions: the unbound creativity of romanticism & cold rationality. If I were writing in the romantical tradition I would spend effort writing beautiful confusing metaphors and sagas – the opposite of which is like PowerPoint bulletpoints with facts & concepts about God. This is about seeking truth in the rational manner – analysis (thought-through argument) over spontaneous gambling.
I try to create a true argument that can be pumped out of propaganda-loud speakers at ISIS, Boko Haram, Al-Shabaan, Al-Qaida, the taliban etc.
If I can tell enough rationality about their God then their fighting-morality, group-loyalty, mission and cohesion disintegrates.
What I produce is kind of as learning-intensive as the theory of relativity, but if put on loud-speakers on the religious wars’ front-lines is more powerful than any cannon.
My canon that outperforms any cannon is a theory/understanding that can be taught in limitlessly many ways – I might have 5000 concepts and you can talk them in any sequence which gives X many courses that teach my theory/science/world-view.
Instead of teaching the science in a random order, can we derive from logic some starting points for the course (making the curriculum scientific/universal)? Yes – 2 starting points akin to that it is scientific/universal to teach history chronologically.
The two starting points are Nothingness and “I think & I am”.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
The first order of business is defining the starting points along the “Nothingness”-path & the “I think & I am” path.
Everyone spontaneously believes that he/she exists & that he/she thinks thoughts, but a man
figured this out
in the 1600s. He asked: “what in an allmighty demon would be fooling me in everything I can be fooled at/in?” What remains? Allmighty fooler on a mission to fool completely in everything.
He figured out “I exist” because there is a self necessary for a/that self to be fooled.
As a distinct line of reasoning he figured out that “being fooled is [thinking/a thought-process]”, in other words that thought exists as certainly as the self.
That is the starting point on the “I think & I exist”-path.
The starting point on the Nothingness-path is a starting point because no prior reason/justification is possible/necessary. What doesn’t exist need not be explained.
It is said that when the concept 0 was invented the ancients got afraid of it because out [energymass neurons]/brain cannot properly represent something emptier than neurons/brain. Nothingness is emptier than we see it as because we are made of and are using somethingness to represent/see/talk about Nothingness.
The next conclusion – the next step on a logical progression – along the ”I think & I am”-path is that there is distinction. There is distinction between thinker and thought. We listed two conclusions – right? – I think AND I exist. Distinction is the separation between thinker & thought. Distinction exists and is a legitimate word.
The conclusion following along the Nothingness-path is that there are laws of nature i.e. Nothingness is non-absurd. As an example: Nothingness would be absurd i.e. it is not true that a thing is not itself i.e. that 1 is not 1 . It’s not like 1=2 now, but now 1=3, and now 1=254. Laws of nature such as 1=1 are stable over time and do not change. Another law of nature that makes the universe non-absurd is that a triangle is not a sphere (geometric truths). Another law of nature, necessary for a rational cosmos, is E=mc
2
.
The next step along the “think & I am”-path is that the distinction exists in something (or nothing). There is one “that of which all is part”, called anti-distinction, in which distinction exists. Reality is one.
The next step along the “Nothingness - E=mc
2
”-path is that there is a law of nature that states, in order for the universe to be non-absurd, that: “if something, say E=m, is mentioned then it must also [exist/be summoned]”. It would be absurd for Nothingness to state “E=mc
2
” forever without E=m (energymass) ever existing.
Footnote: E=mc
2
– the summoning of energymass – is summoned in the smallest spaces simultaneously resulting in a
dense
Big Bang.
Sub-footnote: I drop Nobel prizes like they were growing on trees: the rationale for how to get from Nothingness to Something and the prediction that the Big Bang should be dense is valuable knowledge.
The next step along the “I think & I am”-path is that observation/representation is distinction. This is a repetition of the step where we said “distinction is a legitimate word i.e. there are
both
thinker AND thought”. We, as observers/representers, are in the distinction-realm – as opposed to the anti-
distinction-realm – when we observe/represent/always. This means that we, due to distinction – anti-distinction – opposition, do not see [“that of which all is part”/Reality].
The next step in the Nothingness-path is that there is not just one size. There is a range of sizes – each with energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
) – large to small / small to large. Size & time are connected as spacetime. Everything/anything we know about has a size and a time.
The next step along the I think & I am –path is that, since we do not see Reality (that of which all is part) there is more to Reality than can be [known/distinctly made sense of/hypothesized]. Based on the conclusion that everything has a size & time, there must be more sizes & times than can be hypothesized.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
I switch between the two in a universal way.
I can’t do more universal than tasking the two starts of a universal course and intertwining the logical steps step by step.
I would like to show you two synonymous diagrams. The difference between them is in how time is represented. The difference is the same as between a rolled-out video-tape and a TV.
Imagine ten TV screens stacked in a column. Imagine that the topmost TV shows the largest size, the lowestmost TV shows the smallest size and there is a continuum of TVs/sizes between them.
The other synonymous diagram has size on the vertical axis, time on the horizontal axis and every coordinate represents all of the following:
- a size-time (every object has a size and a time)
- a sub-field of science
- a piece of energymasspacetime.
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen, Sweden
Author
yonis
Posted on
09/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
A
New Microsoft Word Document (4)
New Microsoft Word Document (4)
Author
yonis
Posted on
09/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on A
New book (4)
To help & show solidarity toward soldiers…
They´re fighting religious wars where the assumption is that God created earth & gave a violent revalation to prophet Muhammed…
If another theory is proposed to explain why Reality was created & how/why humans came to exist, then the violent revalation & holy war end.
The course which teaches this must be as a universal curriculum designed to maximally convince.
It has two starting points:
certain truth (agreement on that we think & we exist)
Nothing (which “doesn’t exist” or exists a-priori (without previous further necessary explanation)).
The fastest way to help soldiers using a universal all-convincing course is like listening to rap music: I’ll connect concepts in a sequence so fast you’ll:
miss alot the first time you isten
listen to it multiple times to catch something new every time
see that I use different ways to present the same set of concept
There are three groups of people:
the intellectuals whom learn for learning’s sake
those who take the moral argument of having solidarity with soldiers (that it’s more moral to drive a car after a bottle of vodka than to not save soldiers’ lives by teaching a course)
those who have to be schooled by an authority.
Have you asked something about:
what God is?
I can tell you everything about God.
First of all: there are two intellectual traditions: the unbound creativity of romanticism & cold rationality. If I were writing in the romantical tradition I would spend effort writing beautiful confusing metaphors and sagas – the opposite of which is like PowerPoint bulletpoints with facts & concepts about God. This is about seeking truth in the rational manner – analysis (thought-through argument) over spontaneous gambling.
I try to create a true argument that can be pumped out of propaganda-loud speakers at ISIS, Boko Haram, Al-Shabaan, Al-Qaida, the taliban etc.
If I can tell enough rationality about their God then their fighting-morality, group-loyalty, mission and cohesion disintegrates.
What I produce is kind of as learning-intensive as the theory of relativity, but if put on loud-speakers on the religious wars’ front-lines is more powerful than any cannon.
My canon that outperforms any cannon is a theory/understanding that can be taught in limitlessly many ways – I might have 5000 concepts and you can talk them in any sequence which gives X many courses that teach my theory/science/world-view.
Instead of teaching the science in a random order, can we derive from logic some starting points for the course (making the curriculum scientific/universal)? Yes – 2 starting points akin to that it is scientific/universal to teach history chronologically.
The two starting points are Nothingness and “I think & I am”.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
The next conclusion – the next step on a logical progression – along the ”I think & I am”-path is that there is distinction. There is distinction between thinker and thought. We listed two conclusions – right? – I think AND I exist. Distinction is the separation between thinker & thought. Distinction exists and is a legitimate word.
The conclusion following along the Nothingness-path is that there are laws of nature i.e. Nothingness is non-absurd. As an example: Nothingness would be absurd i.e. it is not true that a thing is not itself i.e. that 1 is not 1 . It’s not like 1=2 now, but now 1=3, and now 1=254. Laws of nature such as 1=1 are stable over time and do not change. Another law of nature that makes the universe non-absurd is that a triangle is not a sphere (geometric truths). Another law of nature, necessary for a rational cosmos, is E=mc
2
.
The next step along the “think & I am”-path is that the distinction exists in something (or nothing). There is one “that of which all is part”, called anti-distinction, in which distinction exists. Reality is one.
The next step along the “Nothingness – E=mc
2
”-path is that there is a law of nature that states, in order for the universe to be non-absurd, that: “if something, say E=m, is mentioned then it must also [exist/be summoned]”. It would be absurd for Nothingness to state “E=mc
2
” forever without E=m (energymass) ever existing.
Footnote: E=mc
2
– the summoning of energymass – is summoned in the smallest spaces simultaneously resulting in a
dense
Big Bang.
Sub-footnote: I drop Nobel prizes like they were growing on trees: the rationale for how to get from Nothingness to Something and the prediction that the Big Bang should be dense is valuable knowledge.
The next step along the “I think & I am”-path is that observation/representation is distinction. This is a repetition of the step where we said “distinction is a legitimate word i.e. there are
both
thinker AND thought”. We, as observers/representers, are in the distinction-realm – as opposed to the anti-distinction-realm – when we observe/represent/always. This means that we, due to distinction – anti-distinction – opposition, do not see [“that of which all is part”/Reality].
The next step in the Nothingness-path is that there is not just one size. There is a range of sizes – each with energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
) – large to small / small to large. Size & time are connected as spacetime. Everything/anything we know about has a size and a time.
The next step along the I think & I am –path is that, since we do not see Reality (that of which all is part) there is more to Reality than can be [known/distinctly made sense of/hypothesized]. Based on the conclusion that everything has a size & time, there must be more sizes & times than can be hypothesized.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
I switch between the two in a universal way.
I can’t do more universal than tasking the two starts of a universal course and intertwining the logical steps step by step.
Author
yonis
Posted on
07/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on New book (4)
If you eradicate religion from the face of the earth then theres not as much to build little militant enclaves around. Group-bonding will be based on friendships, companies and governments – not religious affiliations. Eradicating religion breaks down something evil at the core of human beings.
If religion is eradicated then there is no pretext such as jihad for mere power/resource-grabbing, revenge, hybris etc. The true purpose of future wars will be clearer, blatant and more awkward if religion is out of the way.
Then we have those few terrorist nutcases who actually believe in (violent) religion and they need to be reached by my teaching.
Author
yonis
Posted on
04/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
Solidarity with soldiers
Author
yonis
Posted on
03/02/2017
03/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Solidarity with soldiers
Solidarity with soldiers
Author
yonis
Posted on
02/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Solidarity with soldiers
Universal course has 3 beginnings leading up to DNA
Author
yonis
Posted on
01/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Universal course has 3 beginnings leading up to DNA
Religious war
Author
yonis
Posted on
01/02/2017
01/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Religious war
Interse 25 01 2017 (15 mins)
Everyone agrees they they themselves exist, because if one would get fooled in everyone one can be fooled in then one would exist there anyway and be fooled. So one knows that one exists. Then one also knows that one thinks because “to get fooled” is a thought-process. Thus we have two things: I think and I exist. And the distinction between them: and on the flipside of the paper we have the opposite of that: anti-distinction, and this can also be called “that of which all is part”/Reality. And since we are in the distinction-side of the paper when we see something; when we see something there is distinction between us and that thing. Thus we cannot represent or see that which is on the other side of the paper i.e. that of which all is part / Reality. Nothing can represent – because it is distinct – Reality. So whatever which is distinct cannot… whatever that is observed or represented is distinct and therefore is not… therefore does not represent Reality / “that of which all is part”. So we have distinction and anti-distinction as opposing poles.
This leads to that there is more to Reality than we can represent; or that anything can represent – be it a computer or a coffee-cup or whatever. And if there is more to Reality and what we know about Reality is that it comes as a size-time-diagram…; that there are sizes and times. One can draw it as a diagram with size on one axis and time on the other, then there is more to that diagram than we can represent. In other words the sizerange is infinite and the size-axis is infinite. We can think about a bigger size than  the largest we know and then we are representing it – we have a hypothesis about it. And even in that case it is true that we are on the distinction-side of the paper, we are representing (which includes distinction) and therefore there is even more than we can even hypothesize about (regarding Reality).
In an infinite sizerange of infinitely much time there ought to be a little DNA-strand which reproduces itself; i.e. if the sizerange is infinite from quantum physics to cosmology and infinitely much past the largest and the smallest then there is a DNA-strand somewhere in that infinity. Thus we have reached DNA from certain truth: from that we think and we exist, to distinction, to anti-distinction, to that there is more to Reality than we can observe/represent and therefore there is more to the size-axis than we can hypothesize, and therefore there is a DNA-strand.
The second way of coming to the DNA-strand from a good beginning is that we start with nothing. In nothing – empty space… which is emptier than our neurons think of it as. We are made of energymass, we are made of something so we have a hard time representing nothing; nothing is emptier than we represent it as. In this nothing there are laws of nature such as 1 is 1; it is not absurd: it is not so that right now 1=1, but now 1 is 2, and now 1 is 155, but instead one always equals one. Such laws of nature are built-in into nothing. The law of nature that a triangle is not a sphere. Another law of nature is E=mc
2
– that energymass is found in the same equation as spacetime is found in – and spacetime is again that nothingness (and it is joined together with energymass in E=mc
2
). So we get something from nothing, that is to say something and nothing are intertwined and it is the laws of nature between them which makes it so that one can logically say that “in nothing exists E=mc
2
, E=mc
2
mentions energymass/existence, and therefore existence much exist because nothing cannot mention existence without existence existing. This existence then comes as an infinite sizerange and then we arrive at the DNA-strand again: that it ought to exist as existence in an infinite sizerange.
We have started with nothing, went to the laws of nature, to E=mc
2
which mentions energymass and thus energymass has to exist because if it is mentioned then it must also exist (otherwise it’d be absurd). And thus we reach the DNA-strand from nothing.
The third way of beginning this course with is that we have three pillars to the existential theory: we have an infinite sizerange, of energymasspacetime (something & nothing),  and we have this left-and-right-side-of-the-paper (distinction & anti-distinction). In an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime and distinction- anti-distinction –opposition.
All of these three roads, that is to say: I think and I exist; nothing and the 3 pillars to the existential theory leads to the three pillars of the existential theory (that there is an infinite sizerange and therefore a DNA-strand). And when there is a DNA-strand / when there is reproduction with the DNA-strand, then there is 1) survival and death (the ones who survive survive and go forward in evolution), and the 2)nd principle that the number of offspring has significance (that there is a difference between 0 or 1 or 5 or 10 offspring in evolution), and the 3)rd principle is that there is mutation in each generation-shift (that parents are different from their young, that the DNA-strand mutates over time).
When we get to dinosaurs we’ll get to how cortex (the flexible part of the brain) started in birds in order to adapt the brain to the body, so that if the bird was born with a too short wing then the brain could sense that “my body is like this” “so I should fly in another way than if my wings were of equal length”. It adapts the brain to the body and learns to fly normally even if it is hurted or something similar. So we have a flexible part of the brain which starts thus.
Then, after a while, evolves a function where we have two brain-halves: one visual and one linguistic with serotonine (which activates various thoughts, and if a sequence of though leads to some evolutionary benefit (that is: if one’s plan is completeable and leads to happiness) then it is marked with dopamine (as important) and then one continues: serotonine – planning different ways from it and if a way works it is marked with dopamine). This function of having two brain-halves with serotonine and dopamine evolved as a function to let us for example plan our way upward in the hierarchy and therefore get the largest number of offspring. It was a function which was evolutionarily useful.
The 2
nd
function in the brain is classed into three categories: the homeostatic (the internal (hunger and thirst etc), they have to do with the body internally and are a medium-sized category, a medium-sized number of these that are in the body), then there are very many that have to do with our senses (if we see a snake, if we see a squirrel, if we see this or that… and how we react to hearing noises from the bushes (we get anxiety because it’s a tiger)) – there are alot of these social/external which we are made aware of through our senses (so it’s a larger category than the homeostatic one). And a third last tiny category is that which we do when we don’t have any homeostatic or social/external which is interesting, and that is that which we do when we are idle. And that is to plan how to get friends, how to get power, how one gets resources (money), one advances one’s world-view (curiosity), plans reproduction – and those are the approximately 5 things we tend to do when we don’t have anything ongoing. So a little category of those things we do when we are idle.
There is the utilitarian principle that “people seek happiness”, we want to create happiness: and evolution has made us so that we maximize these reproductive benefits (like survival, reproduction and power-seeking and security and expanding one’s world-view). We always maximize them so maybe we don’t have the happiest emotions that the universe allows to have in one’s brain, but instead we have the most maximizing emotions. We have an emotional repertoire which maximizes our chances in evolution. But when we learn more about DNA and how DNA creates the brain, one can create a brain in a jar which has the maximum-happiness-emotions instead of evolutionarily maximizing (greed and such). So I think that the future – since we have this utilitarian principle that we want to maximize happiness – we will create a brain using DNA-engineering which is maximally happy – it needs no body to be that but it can be a brain in a jar which is maximally happy. I think we will create those and they will remain for millions of years, but humanity seems to pollute its planet and finish its oil so in 100 years maybe it starts to go downward for us humans. We finish the planet – the oil doesn’t come back and the pollution remains, so every planet’s (in the infinite universe) history culminates in having a short period of oil (a few hundred years) and then we have these brains which are super-happy in their jars for millions of years. It’s a little bit South Park / Futurama over the whole thing – it’s cartoonish that we create a farm with brains in jars which are the happiest that there is and we humans finish the oil and do ordinary human things. That is the future.
But I thought that this course, in itself, this order in which I’ve presented the ideas; that that setup is universal (they teach the same course on other planets). They begin with the three different beginnings to the course (I think & I exist, distinction & anti-distinction, that it leads to that there is more to Reality than we can know – more sizes – and therefore there ought to be a DNA-strand), or that there is nothing (laws of nature, the laws of nature mention energymass and thus energymass has to exist) and then it leads to a DNA-strand, or that we have 3 pillars (an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime and distinction-anti-distinction-opposition) and that leads to these three pillars which leads to these three principles in the evolurionary theory (that those who survive survive, the number of offspring matters and there is mutation in each generation-shift); then comes cortex which begins by adapting the brain to the animal, and then that it is used to climb up in the hierarchy (for example) – how one gets friends, how one makes different plans… – and therefore comes this left-right-brainhalf with serotonine and dopamine (that function) comes into the game and the one who has the largest brain plans his or her way to the top over millions of years (and this is why the brain grew): because we planned, we are planning animals. And then it ends with that we DNA-engineer brains which are super-happy in their jars, and finish the oil and pollute the planet. And this ought to be how every planets’ history goes and the course itself is taught and exists on other planets too so they teach exactly the same curriculum (so there are infinitely many planets with the same text that we just made).
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/ZOOM0001_01.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
25/01/2017
25/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Interse 25 01 2017 (15 mins)
Talet 3
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/talet-3.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
17/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Talet 3
Posts navigation
Page
1
Page
2
Page
3
Next page
Search for:
Search
Recent Posts
715
A
New book (4)
694
Solidarity with soldiers
Recent Comments
Archives
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
January 2016
Categories
Dagbok
Old
The book + diagrams
Trashcan
Trey
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.org
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Proudly powered by WordPress

Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen – Teach what you study here to end religious wars
Skip to content
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Teach what you study here to end religious wars
New Microsoft Word Document (4)
To help & show solidarity toward soldiers...
They´re fighting religious wars where the assumption is that God created earth & gave a violent revalation to prophet Muhammed...
If another theory is proposed to explain why Reality was created & how/why humans came to exist, then the violent revalation & holy war end.
The course which teaches this must be as a universal curriculum designed to maximally convince.
It has two starting points:
certain truth (agreement on that we think & we exist)
Nothing (which “doesn’t exist” or exists a-priori (without previous further necessary explanation)).
The fastest way to help soldiers using a universal all-convincing course is like listening to rap music: I’ll connect concepts in a sequence so fast you’ll:
miss alot the first time you isten
listen to it multiple times to catch something new every time
see that I use different ways to present the same set of concept
There are three groups of people:
the intellectuals whom learn for learning’s sake
those who take the moral argument of having solidarity with soldiers (that it’s more moral to drive a car after a bottle of vodka than to not save soldiers’ lives by teaching a course)
those who have to be schooled by an authority.
Have you asked something about:
what God is?
I can tell you everything about God.
First of all: there are two intellectual traditions: the unbound creativity of romanticism & cold rationality. If I were writing in the romantical tradition I would spend effort writing beautiful confusing metaphors and sagas – the opposite of which is like PowerPoint bulletpoints with facts & concepts about God. This is about seeking truth in the rational manner – analysis (thought-through argument) over spontaneous gambling.
I try to create a true argument that can be pumped out of propaganda-loud speakers at ISIS, Boko Haram, Al-Shabaan, Al-Qaida, the taliban etc.
If I can tell enough rationality about their God then their fighting-morality, group-loyalty, mission and cohesion disintegrates.
What I produce is kind of as learning-intensive as the theory of relativity, but if put on loud-speakers on the religious wars’ front-lines is more powerful than any cannon.
My canon that outperforms any cannon is a theory/understanding that can be taught in limitlessly many ways – I might have 5000 concepts and you can talk them in any sequence which gives X many courses that teach my theory/science/world-view.
Instead of teaching the science in a random order, can we derive from logic some starting points for the course (making the curriculum scientific/universal)? Yes – 2 starting points akin to that it is scientific/universal to teach history chronologically.
The two starting points are Nothingness and “I think & I am”.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
The first order of business is defining the starting points along the “Nothingness”-path & the “I think & I am” path.
Everyone spontaneously believes that he/she exists & that he/she thinks thoughts, but a man
figured this out
in the 1600s. He asked: “what in an allmighty demon would be fooling me in everything I can be fooled at/in?” What remains? Allmighty fooler on a mission to fool completely in everything.
He figured out “I exist” because there is a self necessary for a/that self to be fooled.
As a distinct line of reasoning he figured out that “being fooled is [thinking/a thought-process]”, in other words that thought exists as certainly as the self.
That is the starting point on the “I think & I exist”-path.
The starting point on the Nothingness-path is a starting point because no prior reason/justification is possible/necessary. What doesn’t exist need not be explained.
It is said that when the concept 0 was invented the ancients got afraid of it because out [energymass neurons]/brain cannot properly represent something emptier than neurons/brain. Nothingness is emptier than we see it as because we are made of and are using somethingness to represent/see/talk about Nothingness.
The next conclusion – the next step on a logical progression – along the ”I think & I am”-path is that there is distinction. There is distinction between thinker and thought. We listed two conclusions – right? – I think AND I exist. Distinction is the separation between thinker & thought. Distinction exists and is a legitimate word.
The conclusion following along the Nothingness-path is that there are laws of nature i.e. Nothingness is non-absurd. As an example: Nothingness would be absurd i.e. it is not true that a thing is not itself i.e. that 1 is not 1 . It’s not like 1=2 now, but now 1=3, and now 1=254. Laws of nature such as 1=1 are stable over time and do not change. Another law of nature that makes the universe non-absurd is that a triangle is not a sphere (geometric truths). Another law of nature, necessary for a rational cosmos, is E=mc
2
.
The next step along the “think & I am”-path is that the distinction exists in something (or nothing). There is one “that of which all is part”, called anti-distinction, in which distinction exists. Reality is one.
The next step along the “Nothingness - E=mc
2
”-path is that there is a law of nature that states, in order for the universe to be non-absurd, that: “if something, say E=m, is mentioned then it must also [exist/be summoned]”. It would be absurd for Nothingness to state “E=mc
2
” forever without E=m (energymass) ever existing.
Footnote: E=mc
2
– the summoning of energymass – is summoned in the smallest spaces simultaneously resulting in a
dense
Big Bang.
Sub-footnote: I drop Nobel prizes like they were growing on trees: the rationale for how to get from Nothingness to Something and the prediction that the Big Bang should be dense is valuable knowledge.
The next step along the “I think & I am”-path is that observation/representation is distinction. This is a repetition of the step where we said “distinction is a legitimate word i.e. there are
both
thinker AND thought”. We, as observers/representers, are in the distinction-realm – as opposed to the anti-
distinction-realm – when we observe/represent/always. This means that we, due to distinction – anti-distinction – opposition, do not see [“that of which all is part”/Reality].
The next step in the Nothingness-path is that there is not just one size. There is a range of sizes – each with energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
) – large to small / small to large. Size & time are connected as spacetime. Everything/anything we know about has a size and a time.
The next step along the I think & I am –path is that, since we do not see Reality (that of which all is part) there is more to Reality than can be [known/distinctly made sense of/hypothesized]. Based on the conclusion that everything has a size & time, there must be more sizes & times than can be hypothesized.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
I switch between the two in a universal way.
I can’t do more universal than tasking the two starts of a universal course and intertwining the logical steps step by step.
I would like to show you two synonymous diagrams. The difference between them is in how time is represented. The difference is the same as between a rolled-out video-tape and a TV.
Imagine ten TV screens stacked in a column. Imagine that the topmost TV shows the largest size, the lowestmost TV shows the smallest size and there is a continuum of TVs/sizes between them.
The other synonymous diagram has size on the vertical axis, time on the horizontal axis and every coordinate represents all of the following:
- a size-time (every object has a size and a time)
- a sub-field of science
- a piece of energymasspacetime.
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen, Sweden
Author
yonis
Posted on
09/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
A
New Microsoft Word Document (4)
New Microsoft Word Document (4)
Author
yonis
Posted on
09/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on A
New book (4)
To help & show solidarity toward soldiers…
They´re fighting religious wars where the assumption is that God created earth & gave a violent revalation to prophet Muhammed…
If another theory is proposed to explain why Reality was created & how/why humans came to exist, then the violent revalation & holy war end.
The course which teaches this must be as a universal curriculum designed to maximally convince.
It has two starting points:
certain truth (agreement on that we think & we exist)
Nothing (which “doesn’t exist” or exists a-priori (without previous further necessary explanation)).
The fastest way to help soldiers using a universal all-convincing course is like listening to rap music: I’ll connect concepts in a sequence so fast you’ll:
miss alot the first time you isten
listen to it multiple times to catch something new every time
see that I use different ways to present the same set of concept
There are three groups of people:
the intellectuals whom learn for learning’s sake
those who take the moral argument of having solidarity with soldiers (that it’s more moral to drive a car after a bottle of vodka than to not save soldiers’ lives by teaching a course)
those who have to be schooled by an authority.
Have you asked something about:
what God is?
I can tell you everything about God.
First of all: there are two intellectual traditions: the unbound creativity of romanticism & cold rationality. If I were writing in the romantical tradition I would spend effort writing beautiful confusing metaphors and sagas – the opposite of which is like PowerPoint bulletpoints with facts & concepts about God. This is about seeking truth in the rational manner – analysis (thought-through argument) over spontaneous gambling.
I try to create a true argument that can be pumped out of propaganda-loud speakers at ISIS, Boko Haram, Al-Shabaan, Al-Qaida, the taliban etc.
If I can tell enough rationality about their God then their fighting-morality, group-loyalty, mission and cohesion disintegrates.
What I produce is kind of as learning-intensive as the theory of relativity, but if put on loud-speakers on the religious wars’ front-lines is more powerful than any cannon.
My canon that outperforms any cannon is a theory/understanding that can be taught in limitlessly many ways – I might have 5000 concepts and you can talk them in any sequence which gives X many courses that teach my theory/science/world-view.
Instead of teaching the science in a random order, can we derive from logic some starting points for the course (making the curriculum scientific/universal)? Yes – 2 starting points akin to that it is scientific/universal to teach history chronologically.
The two starting points are Nothingness and “I think & I am”.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
The next conclusion – the next step on a logical progression – along the ”I think & I am”-path is that there is distinction. There is distinction between thinker and thought. We listed two conclusions – right? – I think AND I exist. Distinction is the separation between thinker & thought. Distinction exists and is a legitimate word.
The conclusion following along the Nothingness-path is that there are laws of nature i.e. Nothingness is non-absurd. As an example: Nothingness would be absurd i.e. it is not true that a thing is not itself i.e. that 1 is not 1 . It’s not like 1=2 now, but now 1=3, and now 1=254. Laws of nature such as 1=1 are stable over time and do not change. Another law of nature that makes the universe non-absurd is that a triangle is not a sphere (geometric truths). Another law of nature, necessary for a rational cosmos, is E=mc
2
.
The next step along the “think & I am”-path is that the distinction exists in something (or nothing). There is one “that of which all is part”, called anti-distinction, in which distinction exists. Reality is one.
The next step along the “Nothingness – E=mc
2
”-path is that there is a law of nature that states, in order for the universe to be non-absurd, that: “if something, say E=m, is mentioned then it must also [exist/be summoned]”. It would be absurd for Nothingness to state “E=mc
2
” forever without E=m (energymass) ever existing.
Footnote: E=mc
2
– the summoning of energymass – is summoned in the smallest spaces simultaneously resulting in a
dense
Big Bang.
Sub-footnote: I drop Nobel prizes like they were growing on trees: the rationale for how to get from Nothingness to Something and the prediction that the Big Bang should be dense is valuable knowledge.
The next step along the “I think & I am”-path is that observation/representation is distinction. This is a repetition of the step where we said “distinction is a legitimate word i.e. there are
both
thinker AND thought”. We, as observers/representers, are in the distinction-realm – as opposed to the anti-distinction-realm – when we observe/represent/always. This means that we, due to distinction – anti-distinction – opposition, do not see [“that of which all is part”/Reality].
The next step in the Nothingness-path is that there is not just one size. There is a range of sizes – each with energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
) – large to small / small to large. Size & time are connected as spacetime. Everything/anything we know about has a size and a time.
The next step along the I think & I am –path is that, since we do not see Reality (that of which all is part) there is more to Reality than can be [known/distinctly made sense of/hypothesized]. Based on the conclusion that everything has a size & time, there must be more sizes & times than can be hypothesized.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
I switch between the two in a universal way.
I can’t do more universal than tasking the two starts of a universal course and intertwining the logical steps step by step.
Author
yonis
Posted on
07/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on New book (4)
If you eradicate religion from the face of the earth then theres not as much to build little militant enclaves around. Group-bonding will be based on friendships, companies and governments – not religious affiliations. Eradicating religion breaks down something evil at the core of human beings.
If religion is eradicated then there is no pretext such as jihad for mere power/resource-grabbing, revenge, hybris etc. The true purpose of future wars will be clearer, blatant and more awkward if religion is out of the way.
Then we have those few terrorist nutcases who actually believe in (violent) religion and they need to be reached by my teaching.
Author
yonis
Posted on
04/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
Solidarity with soldiers
Author
yonis
Posted on
03/02/2017
03/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Solidarity with soldiers
Solidarity with soldiers
Author
yonis
Posted on
02/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Solidarity with soldiers
Universal course has 3 beginnings leading up to DNA
Author
yonis
Posted on
01/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Universal course has 3 beginnings leading up to DNA
Religious war
Author
yonis
Posted on
01/02/2017
01/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Religious war
Interse 25 01 2017 (15 mins)
Everyone agrees they they themselves exist, because if one would get fooled in everyone one can be fooled in then one would exist there anyway and be fooled. So one knows that one exists. Then one also knows that one thinks because “to get fooled” is a thought-process. Thus we have two things: I think and I exist. And the distinction between them: and on the flipside of the paper we have the opposite of that: anti-distinction, and this can also be called “that of which all is part”/Reality. And since we are in the distinction-side of the paper when we see something; when we see something there is distinction between us and that thing. Thus we cannot represent or see that which is on the other side of the paper i.e. that of which all is part / Reality. Nothing can represent – because it is distinct – Reality. So whatever which is distinct cannot… whatever that is observed or represented is distinct and therefore is not… therefore does not represent Reality / “that of which all is part”. So we have distinction and anti-distinction as opposing poles.
This leads to that there is more to Reality than we can represent; or that anything can represent – be it a computer or a coffee-cup or whatever. And if there is more to Reality and what we know about Reality is that it comes as a size-time-diagram…; that there are sizes and times. One can draw it as a diagram with size on one axis and time on the other, then there is more to that diagram than we can represent. In other words the sizerange is infinite and the size-axis is infinite. We can think about a bigger size than  the largest we know and then we are representing it – we have a hypothesis about it. And even in that case it is true that we are on the distinction-side of the paper, we are representing (which includes distinction) and therefore there is even more than we can even hypothesize about (regarding Reality).
In an infinite sizerange of infinitely much time there ought to be a little DNA-strand which reproduces itself; i.e. if the sizerange is infinite from quantum physics to cosmology and infinitely much past the largest and the smallest then there is a DNA-strand somewhere in that infinity. Thus we have reached DNA from certain truth: from that we think and we exist, to distinction, to anti-distinction, to that there is more to Reality than we can observe/represent and therefore there is more to the size-axis than we can hypothesize, and therefore there is a DNA-strand.
The second way of coming to the DNA-strand from a good beginning is that we start with nothing. In nothing – empty space… which is emptier than our neurons think of it as. We are made of energymass, we are made of something so we have a hard time representing nothing; nothing is emptier than we represent it as. In this nothing there are laws of nature such as 1 is 1; it is not absurd: it is not so that right now 1=1, but now 1 is 2, and now 1 is 155, but instead one always equals one. Such laws of nature are built-in into nothing. The law of nature that a triangle is not a sphere. Another law of nature is E=mc
2
– that energymass is found in the same equation as spacetime is found in – and spacetime is again that nothingness (and it is joined together with energymass in E=mc
2
). So we get something from nothing, that is to say something and nothing are intertwined and it is the laws of nature between them which makes it so that one can logically say that “in nothing exists E=mc
2
, E=mc
2
mentions energymass/existence, and therefore existence much exist because nothing cannot mention existence without existence existing. This existence then comes as an infinite sizerange and then we arrive at the DNA-strand again: that it ought to exist as existence in an infinite sizerange.
We have started with nothing, went to the laws of nature, to E=mc
2
which mentions energymass and thus energymass has to exist because if it is mentioned then it must also exist (otherwise it’d be absurd). And thus we reach the DNA-strand from nothing.
The third way of beginning this course with is that we have three pillars to the existential theory: we have an infinite sizerange, of energymasspacetime (something & nothing),  and we have this left-and-right-side-of-the-paper (distinction & anti-distinction). In an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime and distinction- anti-distinction –opposition.
All of these three roads, that is to say: I think and I exist; nothing and the 3 pillars to the existential theory leads to the three pillars of the existential theory (that there is an infinite sizerange and therefore a DNA-strand). And when there is a DNA-strand / when there is reproduction with the DNA-strand, then there is 1) survival and death (the ones who survive survive and go forward in evolution), and the 2)nd principle that the number of offspring has significance (that there is a difference between 0 or 1 or 5 or 10 offspring in evolution), and the 3)rd principle is that there is mutation in each generation-shift (that parents are different from their young, that the DNA-strand mutates over time).
When we get to dinosaurs we’ll get to how cortex (the flexible part of the brain) started in birds in order to adapt the brain to the body, so that if the bird was born with a too short wing then the brain could sense that “my body is like this” “so I should fly in another way than if my wings were of equal length”. It adapts the brain to the body and learns to fly normally even if it is hurted or something similar. So we have a flexible part of the brain which starts thus.
Then, after a while, evolves a function where we have two brain-halves: one visual and one linguistic with serotonine (which activates various thoughts, and if a sequence of though leads to some evolutionary benefit (that is: if one’s plan is completeable and leads to happiness) then it is marked with dopamine (as important) and then one continues: serotonine – planning different ways from it and if a way works it is marked with dopamine). This function of having two brain-halves with serotonine and dopamine evolved as a function to let us for example plan our way upward in the hierarchy and therefore get the largest number of offspring. It was a function which was evolutionarily useful.
The 2
nd
function in the brain is classed into three categories: the homeostatic (the internal (hunger and thirst etc), they have to do with the body internally and are a medium-sized category, a medium-sized number of these that are in the body), then there are very many that have to do with our senses (if we see a snake, if we see a squirrel, if we see this or that… and how we react to hearing noises from the bushes (we get anxiety because it’s a tiger)) – there are alot of these social/external which we are made aware of through our senses (so it’s a larger category than the homeostatic one). And a third last tiny category is that which we do when we don’t have any homeostatic or social/external which is interesting, and that is that which we do when we are idle. And that is to plan how to get friends, how to get power, how one gets resources (money), one advances one’s world-view (curiosity), plans reproduction – and those are the approximately 5 things we tend to do when we don’t have anything ongoing. So a little category of those things we do when we are idle.
There is the utilitarian principle that “people seek happiness”, we want to create happiness: and evolution has made us so that we maximize these reproductive benefits (like survival, reproduction and power-seeking and security and expanding one’s world-view). We always maximize them so maybe we don’t have the happiest emotions that the universe allows to have in one’s brain, but instead we have the most maximizing emotions. We have an emotional repertoire which maximizes our chances in evolution. But when we learn more about DNA and how DNA creates the brain, one can create a brain in a jar which has the maximum-happiness-emotions instead of evolutionarily maximizing (greed and such). So I think that the future – since we have this utilitarian principle that we want to maximize happiness – we will create a brain using DNA-engineering which is maximally happy – it needs no body to be that but it can be a brain in a jar which is maximally happy. I think we will create those and they will remain for millions of years, but humanity seems to pollute its planet and finish its oil so in 100 years maybe it starts to go downward for us humans. We finish the planet – the oil doesn’t come back and the pollution remains, so every planet’s (in the infinite universe) history culminates in having a short period of oil (a few hundred years) and then we have these brains which are super-happy in their jars for millions of years. It’s a little bit South Park / Futurama over the whole thing – it’s cartoonish that we create a farm with brains in jars which are the happiest that there is and we humans finish the oil and do ordinary human things. That is the future.
But I thought that this course, in itself, this order in which I’ve presented the ideas; that that setup is universal (they teach the same course on other planets). They begin with the three different beginnings to the course (I think & I exist, distinction & anti-distinction, that it leads to that there is more to Reality than we can know – more sizes – and therefore there ought to be a DNA-strand), or that there is nothing (laws of nature, the laws of nature mention energymass and thus energymass has to exist) and then it leads to a DNA-strand, or that we have 3 pillars (an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime and distinction-anti-distinction-opposition) and that leads to these three pillars which leads to these three principles in the evolurionary theory (that those who survive survive, the number of offspring matters and there is mutation in each generation-shift); then comes cortex which begins by adapting the brain to the animal, and then that it is used to climb up in the hierarchy (for example) – how one gets friends, how one makes different plans… – and therefore comes this left-right-brainhalf with serotonine and dopamine (that function) comes into the game and the one who has the largest brain plans his or her way to the top over millions of years (and this is why the brain grew): because we planned, we are planning animals. And then it ends with that we DNA-engineer brains which are super-happy in their jars, and finish the oil and pollute the planet. And this ought to be how every planets’ history goes and the course itself is taught and exists on other planets too so they teach exactly the same curriculum (so there are infinitely many planets with the same text that we just made).
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/ZOOM0001_01.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
25/01/2017
25/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Interse 25 01 2017 (15 mins)
Talet 3
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/talet-3.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
17/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Talet 3
Posts navigation
Page
1
Page
2
Page
3
Next page
Search for:
Search
Recent Posts
715
A
New book (4)
694
Solidarity with soldiers
Recent Comments
Archives
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
January 2016
Categories
Dagbok
Old
The book + diagrams
Trashcan
Trey
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.org
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Proudly powered by WordPress

Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen – Teach what you study here to end religious wars
Skip to content
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Teach what you study here to end religious wars
The universal text
the universal text
The First Universal Text
Advancing civilzation to end religious conflict
To help & show solidarity toward soldiers...
They´re fighting religious wars where the assumption
of a small minority calling themselves muslims
is that God created earth & gave a violent revalation to prophet Muhammed...
If another theory is proposed to explain why Reality was created & how/why humans came to exist, then the violent revalation & holy war end.
The course which teaches this must be as a universal curriculum designed to maximally convince.
It appeals both of the
motivations of helping soldiers and to learning for learning’s sake (being an intellectual).
It has two starting points:
certain truth (agreement on that we think & we exist)
Nothing (which “doesn’t exist” or exists a-priori (without previous further necessary explanation)).
The fastest way to help soldiers using a universal all-convincing course is like listening to rap music: I’ll connect concepts in a sequence so fast you’ll:
miss alot the first time you isten
listen to it multiple times to catch something new every time
see that I use different ways to present the same set of concept
There are three groups of people:
the intellectuals whom learn for learning’s sake
those who take the moral argument of having solidarity with soldiers (that it’s more moral to drive a car after a bottle of vodka than to not save soldiers’ lives by teaching a course)
those who have to be schooled by an authority.
Have you asked something about:
what God is?
I can tell you everything about God.
First of all: there are two intellectual traditions: the unbound creativity of romanticism & cold rationality. If I were writing in the romantical tradition I would spend effort writing beautiful confusing metaphors and sagas – the opposite of which is like PowerPoint bulletpoints with facts & concepts about God. This is about seeking truth in the rational manner – analysis (thought-through argument) over spontaneous gambling.
I try to create a true argument that can be pumped out of propaganda-loud speakers at ISIS, Boko Haram, Al-Shabaan, Al-Qaida, the taliban etc.
If I can tell enough rationality about their God then their fighting-morality, group-loyalty, mission and cohesion disintegrates.
What I produce is kind of as learning-intensive as the theory of relativity, but if put on loud-speakers on the religious wars’ front-lines is more powerful than any cannon.
My canon that outperforms any cannon is a theory/understanding that can be taught in limitlessly many ways – I might have 5000 concepts and you can talk them in any sequence which gives X many courses that teach my theory/science/world-view.
Instead of teaching the science in a random order, can we derive from logic some starting points for the course (making the curriculum scientific/universal)? Yes – 2 starting points akin to that it is scientific/universal to teach history chronologically.
The two starting points are Nothingness and “I think & I am”.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
The first order of business is defining the starting points along the “Nothingness”-path & the “I think & I am” path.
Everyone spontaneously believes that he/she exists & that he/she thinks thoughts, but a man
figured this out
in the 1600s. He asked: “what in an allmighty demon would be fooling me in everything I can be fooled at/in?” What remains? Allmighty fooler on a mission to fool completely in everything.
He figured out “I exist” because there is a self necessary for a/that self to be fooled.
As a distinct line of reasoning he figured out that “being fooled is [thinking/a thought-process]”, in other words that thought exists as certainly as the self.
That is the starting point on the “I think & I exist”-path.
The starting point on the Nothingness-path is a starting point because no prior reason/justification is possible/necessary. What doesn’t exist need not be explained.
It is said that when the concept 0 was invented the ancients got afraid of it because out [energymass neurons]/brain cannot properly represent something emptier than neurons/brain. Nothingness is emptier than we see it as because we are made of and are using somethingness to represent/see/talk about Nothingness.
The next conclusion – the next step on a logical progression – along the ”I think & I am”-path is that there is distinction. There is distinction between thinker and thought. We listed two conclusions – right? – I think AND I exist. Distinction is the separation between thinker & thought. Distinction exists and is a legitimate word.
The conclusion following along the Nothingness-path is that there are laws of nature i.e. Nothingness is non-absurd. As an example: Nothingness would be absurd i.e. it is not true that a thing is not itself i.e. that 1 is not 1 . It’s not like 1=2 now, but now 1=3, and now 1=254. Laws of nature such as 1=1 are stable over time and do not change. Another law of nature that makes the universe non-absurd is that a triangle is not a sphere (geometric truths). Another law of nature, necessary for a rational cosmos, is E=mc
2
.
The next step along the “think & I am”-path is that the distinction exists in something (or nothing). There is one “that of which all is part”, called anti-distinction, in which distinction exists. Reality is one.
The next step along the “Nothingness - E=mc
2
”-path is that there is a law of nature that states, in order for the universe to be non-absurd, that: “if something, say E=m, is mentioned then it must also [exist/be summoned]”. It would be absurd for Nothingness to state “E=mc
2
” forever without E=m (energymass) ever existing.
Footnote: E=mc
2
– the summoning of energymass – is summoned in the smallest spaces simultaneously resulting in a
dense
Big Bang.
Sub-footnote: I drop Nobel prizes like they were growing on trees: the rationale for how to get from Nothingness to Something and the prediction that the Big Bang should be dense is valuable knowledge.
The next step along the “I think & I am”-path is that observation/representation is distinction. This is a repetition of the step where we said “distinction is a legitimate word i.e. there are
both
thinker AND thought”. We, as observers/representers, are in the distinction-realm – as opposed to the anti-distinction-realm – when we observe/represent/always. This means that we, due to distinction – anti-distinction – opposition, do not see [“that of which all is part”/Reality].
The next step in the Nothingness-path is that there is not just one size. There is a range of sizes – each with energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
) – large to small / small to large. Size & time are connected as spacetime. Everything/anything we know about has a size and a time.
The next step along the I think & I am –path is that, since we do not see Reality (that of which all is part) there is more to Reality than can be [known/distinctly made sense of/hypothesized]. Based on the conclusion that everything has a size & time, there must be more sizes & times than can be hypothesized.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
I switch between the two in a universal way.
I can’t do more universal than tasking the two starts of a universal course and intertwining the logical steps step by step.
I would like to show you two synonymous diagrams. The difference between them is in how time is represented. The difference is the same as between a rolled-out video-tape and a TV.
Imagine ten TV screens stacked in a column. Imagine that the topmost TV shows the largest size, the lowestmost TV shows the smallest size and there is a continuum of TVs/sizes between them.
The other synonymous diagram has size on the vertical axis, time on the horizontal axis and every coordinate represents all of the following:
- a size-time (every object has a size and a time)
- a sub-field of science
- a piece of energymasspacetime.
So far we’ve looked at three different concepts – the self, spacetime and anti-distinction – which, if you see them, look the same.
The self can’t be seen because one is it, spacetime can’t be seen because it’s emptier than neurons can represent it as, and
all of
Reality (anti-distinction) can’t be seen because representation is distinction.
These three concepts are inter-connected, though: the self exists as neurons in spacetime, the self and spacetime exist in Reality.
Reality is defined as all of energymasspacetime
and the self exists as a location within a size-time.
Three unseeable concepts with connections between them.
The phrase “God created earth” is parallelled/rivalled by the phrase “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime and distinction-anti-distinction-opposition”. Both claim to be the explanation to why we exist.
The validity of an existential theory (a theory for why there is existence) is tested by whether it can predict a DNA-strand (and thus the evolution up to humans).
If a theory predicts that there ought to be a DNA-strand (at some coordinate in the infinite
size-time-diagram)
the theory has the scientific predictive quality that a theory needs.
Again, keeping with the universal tradition of this text, just like with the “I think & I am” & “Nothingness” dual paths that I intertwined, the continuation of this book will be written as it is written by others aiming at writing something that can be derived from science (empty space in front of oneself) no matter where in our infinite universe one is located.
The two paths that we meet now are that “the ancients wrote about God/Reality” (how to make
religion make sense in a modern context) and “the existential theory”.
If you want to make the ancients’ concepts God and Soul make sense, God is just a synonym for Reality. I tend to ask religious people:
Is God:
a part within “that of which all is part”/Reality,
a synonym for “that of which all is part”/Reality, or
“beyond”/”outside” Reality (which doesn’t have an outside; anything “outside” is unreal)?
Obviously God has to stay real (there is no spacetime for Him to be located in “outside” energymasspacetime, and I put “outside” in quotes because energymasspacetime has no outside), and God cannot be smaller than (a part of) “that of which all is part”. Allah akbar / God is all-encompassing means there is nothing greater than Him, which is true about the word Reality (energymasspacetime / “that of which all is part”).
We already said that “that of which all is part cannot be observed/represented” (meaning there is more to it than infinitely much hypothesizing/representing) and this is said about God too. We also know that Reality is one (not 2 or 0.75) and this is the meaning of the word monotheism.
The three things we know about God/Reality – that it is one, that one cannot see it and that there’s nothing greater – are too many for the Reality-God-connection (as synonyms) to be coincidence. The ancients had access to the speculation about how we as selves are distinct and therefore Reality (the most all-encompassing), due to it being anti-distinction, is unobservable. God comes as infinite
(1)
size-time-axises of
(2)
energymasspacetime and
(3)
distinction-anti-distinction-opposition, because this three-idea theory predicts the dawn of a DNA-strand.
“That the self can’t be seen because one is it” is an analysis the ancients would’ve had access to too using their civilized survey of what is true about the unavoidable observer in every observation. This makes science warrant and want the word “soul” as a synonym for the “thinker” we looked at in “thinker & thought exist”.
This should’ve answered the question: “which parts of religion make sense in a modern context?”. God and Soul are useful concepts – and we know much more about both thanks to science than the ancients
did. It shouldn’t come as a surprize that the scientific lense’s minimalistic interpretation of religion makes a lot of ritual and dogma unscientific i.e. not universal. I couldn’t possibly add any ritual to this book’s curriculum except that the size-time-diagram is a square so tattoo parlors should see a spike in people wanting that universal diagram tattooed on themselves, along with a triangle (with its tip originating from the center size/center of the square) representing evolution’s increasing complexity/fine-tuning and size of the DNA.
It’s a 3D diagram – the square and the triangle being in two different dimensions.
Notice the square (size-time-diagram) and the triangle (evolution) which together are the existential theory, if you remember that E=mc
2
gave us that it is energymasspacetime and the opposition between distinction and anti-distinction. No matter your location in this infinite space (space of the human size is infinite because the size-range is infinite) you’d arrive at the same picture and text.
Wearing this on t-shirts is as universal of a ritual as we will get.
Let’s break down the existential theory’s (God’s) three ideas:
an infinite size-range (with infinite time because size and time are connected as spacetime). Take your body’s size as an example – it is because of the size larger than itself and the sizes smaller than itself. Sizes are because of one another. If the size-range is infinite then this gives infinitely many reasons for any size existing, in other words “the first cause” it retreating infinitely far into the small and large. This explains why a size-range such as our known range exists at all. This is pillar one of the three-pillar existential theory.
of energymasspacetime. Spacetime is emptier than our neurons can represent it as and human endevours are for evolutionary reasons meant to deal with energymass (existence). E=mc
2
is the equation where energymass is mentioned in the E=m-part and the speed of light squared (speed is space (distance) over time) mentions spacetime – in the same equation; they’re connected. This is a pillar of the existential theory because it explains why there can be something (at every size): it is intertwined (and exists in) Nothingness. In Nothing, Something.
distinction-anti-distinction-opposition i.e. the opposition between distinction (like separate observers) and anti-distinction (defined as “that one of which all is part”). We started this book
with two paths: “I think & I am” (and distinction between them) and Nothingness (which is intertwined with Somethingness/energymass). Both are correct conclusions eventhough we need “both-and -thinking” to deal with the facts that Reality is both one and has distinction in it.
This three-pillared/three-idea existential theory rivals “God created the universe” and predicts that the Big Bang ought to begin as dense (because E=mc
2
is true in the smallest spaces) and end in dark energy/accelarating cosmis expansion i.e. that the universe becomes emptier until a region of Nothingness appears again – the universe hates a vacuum and since E=mc
2
is true in that vacuum, the vacuum cannot remain empty. This three-pillared theory predicts the dense beginning of the universe and the empty end of the universe – both the dense beginning and emptying future can be observed with telescopes. The theory also predicts, since it has an infinite size-range, that there should be a DNA-strand and thus evolution.
God thus can only remain as three possibilities:
God is a synonym for Reality (and thanks to this book, we know the three-pillared theory which goes into detail about God); God is “that of which all is part”, energymasspacetime.
God is an unnecessary assumption – the word God can be dropped out of our vocabularies because the theory works fine stand-alone. We don’t need a synonym for Reality since we do have the word Reality already, so we deny God because it comes with so much superstitious baggage.
God is added - just like Santa Claus, elfs, fairies and unicorns can be added – to the theory eventhough it doesn’t make sense to add it. There is no spacetime “outside” energymasspacetime and hence to place for a God to be; God cannot be separate/distinct from Reality without being unreal.
This book, by being universally written:
proves that space is infinite (because there is infinitely large) and thus other planets with human life should write the exact same book,
presents a universal idea in a near-universal way (distinction between the curriculum and the science itself),
advanced civilization / is the pinnacle of human civilization when it comes to the big questions like God, Soul and the existential theory,
can cause skisms within religious war-groups i.e. end war for religious reasons,
is a propaganda-weapon to be put on loud-speakers on the current wars’ front-lines.
I thought it fitting, to keep the curriculum universal, to add “what this book can do for humanity” right after the chapter about the existential theory. The next chapter will deal with evolution (beginning from a DNA-strand).
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen, Sweden
Author
yonis
Posted on
12/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on The universal text
New Microsoft Word Document (4)
To help & show solidarity toward soldiers...
They´re fighting religious wars where the assumption is that God created earth & gave a violent revalation to prophet Muhammed...
If another theory is proposed to explain why Reality was created & how/why humans came to exist, then the violent revalation & holy war end.
The course which teaches this must be as a universal curriculum designed to maximally convince.
It has two starting points:
certain truth (agreement on that we think & we exist)
Nothing (which “doesn’t exist” or exists a-priori (without previous further necessary explanation)).
The fastest way to help soldiers using a universal all-convincing course is like listening to rap music: I’ll connect concepts in a sequence so fast you’ll:
miss alot the first time you isten
listen to it multiple times to catch something new every time
see that I use different ways to present the same set of concept
There are three groups of people:
the intellectuals whom learn for learning’s sake
those who take the moral argument of having solidarity with soldiers (that it’s more moral to drive a car after a bottle of vodka than to not save soldiers’ lives by teaching a course)
those who have to be schooled by an authority.
Have you asked something about:
what God is?
I can tell you everything about God.
First of all: there are two intellectual traditions: the unbound creativity of romanticism & cold rationality. If I were writing in the romantical tradition I would spend effort writing beautiful confusing metaphors and sagas – the opposite of which is like PowerPoint bulletpoints with facts & concepts about God. This is about seeking truth in the rational manner – analysis (thought-through argument) over spontaneous gambling.
I try to create a true argument that can be pumped out of propaganda-loud speakers at ISIS, Boko Haram, Al-Shabaan, Al-Qaida, the taliban etc.
If I can tell enough rationality about their God then their fighting-morality, group-loyalty, mission and cohesion disintegrates.
What I produce is kind of as learning-intensive as the theory of relativity, but if put on loud-speakers on the religious wars’ front-lines is more powerful than any cannon.
My canon that outperforms any cannon is a theory/understanding that can be taught in limitlessly many ways – I might have 5000 concepts and you can talk them in any sequence which gives X many courses that teach my theory/science/world-view.
Instead of teaching the science in a random order, can we derive from logic some starting points for the course (making the curriculum scientific/universal)? Yes – 2 starting points akin to that it is scientific/universal to teach history chronologically.
The two starting points are Nothingness and “I think & I am”.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
The first order of business is defining the starting points along the “Nothingness”-path & the “I think & I am” path.
Everyone spontaneously believes that he/she exists & that he/she thinks thoughts, but a man
figured this out
in the 1600s. He asked: “what in an allmighty demon would be fooling me in everything I can be fooled at/in?” What remains? Allmighty fooler on a mission to fool completely in everything.
He figured out “I exist” because there is a self necessary for a/that self to be fooled.
As a distinct line of reasoning he figured out that “being fooled is [thinking/a thought-process]”, in other words that thought exists as certainly as the self.
That is the starting point on the “I think & I exist”-path.
The starting point on the Nothingness-path is a starting point because no prior reason/justification is possible/necessary. What doesn’t exist need not be explained.
It is said that when the concept 0 was invented the ancients got afraid of it because out [energymass neurons]/brain cannot properly represent something emptier than neurons/brain. Nothingness is emptier than we see it as because we are made of and are using somethingness to represent/see/talk about Nothingness.
The next conclusion – the next step on a logical progression – along the ”I think & I am”-path is that there is distinction. There is distinction between thinker and thought. We listed two conclusions – right? – I think AND I exist. Distinction is the separation between thinker & thought. Distinction exists and is a legitimate word.
The conclusion following along the Nothingness-path is that there are laws of nature i.e. Nothingness is non-absurd. As an example: Nothingness would be absurd i.e. it is not true that a thing is not itself i.e. that 1 is not 1 . It’s not like 1=2 now, but now 1=3, and now 1=254. Laws of nature such as 1=1 are stable over time and do not change. Another law of nature that makes the universe non-absurd is that a triangle is not a sphere (geometric truths). Another law of nature, necessary for a rational cosmos, is E=mc
2
.
The next step along the “think & I am”-path is that the distinction exists in something (or nothing). There is one “that of which all is part”, called anti-distinction, in which distinction exists. Reality is one.
The next step along the “Nothingness - E=mc
2
”-path is that there is a law of nature that states, in order for the universe to be non-absurd, that: “if something, say E=m, is mentioned then it must also [exist/be summoned]”. It would be absurd for Nothingness to state “E=mc
2
” forever without E=m (energymass) ever existing.
Footnote: E=mc
2
– the summoning of energymass – is summoned in the smallest spaces simultaneously resulting in a
dense
Big Bang.
Sub-footnote: I drop Nobel prizes like they were growing on trees: the rationale for how to get from Nothingness to Something and the prediction that the Big Bang should be dense is valuable knowledge.
The next step along the “I think & I am”-path is that observation/representation is distinction. This is a repetition of the step where we said “distinction is a legitimate word i.e. there are
both
thinker AND thought”. We, as observers/representers, are in the distinction-realm – as opposed to the anti-
distinction-realm – when we observe/represent/always. This means that we, due to distinction – anti-distinction – opposition, do not see [“that of which all is part”/Reality].
The next step in the Nothingness-path is that there is not just one size. There is a range of sizes – each with energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
) – large to small / small to large. Size & time are connected as spacetime. Everything/anything we know about has a size and a time.
The next step along the I think & I am –path is that, since we do not see Reality (that of which all is part) there is more to Reality than can be [known/distinctly made sense of/hypothesized]. Based on the conclusion that everything has a size & time, there must be more sizes & times than can be hypothesized.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
I switch between the two in a universal way.
I can’t do more universal than tasking the two starts of a universal course and intertwining the logical steps step by step.
I would like to show you two synonymous diagrams. The difference between them is in how time is represented. The difference is the same as between a rolled-out video-tape and a TV.
Imagine ten TV screens stacked in a column. Imagine that the topmost TV shows the largest size, the lowestmost TV shows the smallest size and there is a continuum of TVs/sizes between them.
The other synonymous diagram has size on the vertical axis, time on the horizontal axis and every coordinate represents all of the following:
- a size-time (every object has a size and a time)
- a sub-field of science
- a piece of energymasspacetime.
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen, Sweden
Author
yonis
Posted on
09/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
A
New Microsoft Word Document (4)
New Microsoft Word Document (4)
Author
yonis
Posted on
09/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on A
New book (4)
To help & show solidarity toward soldiers…
They´re fighting religious wars where the assumption is that God created earth & gave a violent revalation to prophet Muhammed…
If another theory is proposed to explain why Reality was created & how/why humans came to exist, then the violent revalation & holy war end.
The course which teaches this must be as a universal curriculum designed to maximally convince.
It has two starting points:
certain truth (agreement on that we think & we exist)
Nothing (which “doesn’t exist” or exists a-priori (without previous further necessary explanation)).
The fastest way to help soldiers using a universal all-convincing course is like listening to rap music: I’ll connect concepts in a sequence so fast you’ll:
miss alot the first time you isten
listen to it multiple times to catch something new every time
see that I use different ways to present the same set of concept
There are three groups of people:
the intellectuals whom learn for learning’s sake
those who take the moral argument of having solidarity with soldiers (that it’s more moral to drive a car after a bottle of vodka than to not save soldiers’ lives by teaching a course)
those who have to be schooled by an authority.
Have you asked something about:
what God is?
I can tell you everything about God.
First of all: there are two intellectual traditions: the unbound creativity of romanticism & cold rationality. If I were writing in the romantical tradition I would spend effort writing beautiful confusing metaphors and sagas – the opposite of which is like PowerPoint bulletpoints with facts & concepts about God. This is about seeking truth in the rational manner – analysis (thought-through argument) over spontaneous gambling.
I try to create a true argument that can be pumped out of propaganda-loud speakers at ISIS, Boko Haram, Al-Shabaan, Al-Qaida, the taliban etc.
If I can tell enough rationality about their God then their fighting-morality, group-loyalty, mission and cohesion disintegrates.
What I produce is kind of as learning-intensive as the theory of relativity, but if put on loud-speakers on the religious wars’ front-lines is more powerful than any cannon.
My canon that outperforms any cannon is a theory/understanding that can be taught in limitlessly many ways – I might have 5000 concepts and you can talk them in any sequence which gives X many courses that teach my theory/science/world-view.
Instead of teaching the science in a random order, can we derive from logic some starting points for the course (making the curriculum scientific/universal)? Yes – 2 starting points akin to that it is scientific/universal to teach history chronologically.
The two starting points are Nothingness and “I think & I am”.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
The next conclusion – the next step on a logical progression – along the ”I think & I am”-path is that there is distinction. There is distinction between thinker and thought. We listed two conclusions – right? – I think AND I exist. Distinction is the separation between thinker & thought. Distinction exists and is a legitimate word.
The conclusion following along the Nothingness-path is that there are laws of nature i.e. Nothingness is non-absurd. As an example: Nothingness would be absurd i.e. it is not true that a thing is not itself i.e. that 1 is not 1 . It’s not like 1=2 now, but now 1=3, and now 1=254. Laws of nature such as 1=1 are stable over time and do not change. Another law of nature that makes the universe non-absurd is that a triangle is not a sphere (geometric truths). Another law of nature, necessary for a rational cosmos, is E=mc
2
.
The next step along the “think & I am”-path is that the distinction exists in something (or nothing). There is one “that of which all is part”, called anti-distinction, in which distinction exists. Reality is one.
The next step along the “Nothingness – E=mc
2
”-path is that there is a law of nature that states, in order for the universe to be non-absurd, that: “if something, say E=m, is mentioned then it must also [exist/be summoned]”. It would be absurd for Nothingness to state “E=mc
2
” forever without E=m (energymass) ever existing.
Footnote: E=mc
2
– the summoning of energymass – is summoned in the smallest spaces simultaneously resulting in a
dense
Big Bang.
Sub-footnote: I drop Nobel prizes like they were growing on trees: the rationale for how to get from Nothingness to Something and the prediction that the Big Bang should be dense is valuable knowledge.
The next step along the “I think & I am”-path is that observation/representation is distinction. This is a repetition of the step where we said “distinction is a legitimate word i.e. there are
both
thinker AND thought”. We, as observers/representers, are in the distinction-realm – as opposed to the anti-distinction-realm – when we observe/represent/always. This means that we, due to distinction – anti-distinction – opposition, do not see [“that of which all is part”/Reality].
The next step in the Nothingness-path is that there is not just one size. There is a range of sizes – each with energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
) – large to small / small to large. Size & time are connected as spacetime. Everything/anything we know about has a size and a time.
The next step along the I think & I am –path is that, since we do not see Reality (that of which all is part) there is more to Reality than can be [known/distinctly made sense of/hypothesized]. Based on the conclusion that everything has a size & time, there must be more sizes & times than can be hypothesized.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
I switch between the two in a universal way.
I can’t do more universal than tasking the two starts of a universal course and intertwining the logical steps step by step.
Author
yonis
Posted on
07/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on New book (4)
If you eradicate religion from the face of the earth then theres not as much to build little militant enclaves around. Group-bonding will be based on friendships, companies and governments – not religious affiliations. Eradicating religion breaks down something evil at the core of human beings.
If religion is eradicated then there is no pretext such as jihad for mere power/resource-grabbing, revenge, hybris etc. The true purpose of future wars will be clearer, blatant and more awkward if religion is out of the way.
Then we have those few terrorist nutcases who actually believe in (violent) religion and they need to be reached by my teaching.
Author
yonis
Posted on
04/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
Solidarity with soldiers
Author
yonis
Posted on
03/02/2017
03/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Solidarity with soldiers
Solidarity with soldiers
Author
yonis
Posted on
02/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Solidarity with soldiers
Universal course has 3 beginnings leading up to DNA
Author
yonis
Posted on
01/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Universal course has 3 beginnings leading up to DNA
Religious war
Author
yonis
Posted on
01/02/2017
01/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Religious war
Interse 25 01 2017 (15 mins)
Everyone agrees they they themselves exist, because if one would get fooled in everyone one can be fooled in then one would exist there anyway and be fooled. So one knows that one exists. Then one also knows that one thinks because “to get fooled” is a thought-process. Thus we have two things: I think and I exist. And the distinction between them: and on the flipside of the paper we have the opposite of that: anti-distinction, and this can also be called “that of which all is part”/Reality. And since we are in the distinction-side of the paper when we see something; when we see something there is distinction between us and that thing. Thus we cannot represent or see that which is on the other side of the paper i.e. that of which all is part / Reality. Nothing can represent – because it is distinct – Reality. So whatever which is distinct cannot… whatever that is observed or represented is distinct and therefore is not… therefore does not represent Reality / “that of which all is part”. So we have distinction and anti-distinction as opposing poles.
This leads to that there is more to Reality than we can represent; or that anything can represent – be it a computer or a coffee-cup or whatever. And if there is more to Reality and what we know about Reality is that it comes as a size-time-diagram…; that there are sizes and times. One can draw it as a diagram with size on one axis and time on the other, then there is more to that diagram than we can represent. In other words the sizerange is infinite and the size-axis is infinite. We can think about a bigger size than  the largest we know and then we are representing it – we have a hypothesis about it. And even in that case it is true that we are on the distinction-side of the paper, we are representing (which includes distinction) and therefore there is even more than we can even hypothesize about (regarding Reality).
In an infinite sizerange of infinitely much time there ought to be a little DNA-strand which reproduces itself; i.e. if the sizerange is infinite from quantum physics to cosmology and infinitely much past the largest and the smallest then there is a DNA-strand somewhere in that infinity. Thus we have reached DNA from certain truth: from that we think and we exist, to distinction, to anti-distinction, to that there is more to Reality than we can observe/represent and therefore there is more to the size-axis than we can hypothesize, and therefore there is a DNA-strand.
The second way of coming to the DNA-strand from a good beginning is that we start with nothing. In nothing – empty space… which is emptier than our neurons think of it as. We are made of energymass, we are made of something so we have a hard time representing nothing; nothing is emptier than we represent it as. In this nothing there are laws of nature such as 1 is 1; it is not absurd: it is not so that right now 1=1, but now 1 is 2, and now 1 is 155, but instead one always equals one. Such laws of nature are built-in into nothing. The law of nature that a triangle is not a sphere. Another law of nature is E=mc
2
– that energymass is found in the same equation as spacetime is found in – and spacetime is again that nothingness (and it is joined together with energymass in E=mc
2
). So we get something from nothing, that is to say something and nothing are intertwined and it is the laws of nature between them which makes it so that one can logically say that “in nothing exists E=mc
2
, E=mc
2
mentions energymass/existence, and therefore existence much exist because nothing cannot mention existence without existence existing. This existence then comes as an infinite sizerange and then we arrive at the DNA-strand again: that it ought to exist as existence in an infinite sizerange.
We have started with nothing, went to the laws of nature, to E=mc
2
which mentions energymass and thus energymass has to exist because if it is mentioned then it must also exist (otherwise it’d be absurd). And thus we reach the DNA-strand from nothing.
The third way of beginning this course with is that we have three pillars to the existential theory: we have an infinite sizerange, of energymasspacetime (something & nothing),  and we have this left-and-right-side-of-the-paper (distinction & anti-distinction). In an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime and distinction- anti-distinction –opposition.
All of these three roads, that is to say: I think and I exist; nothing and the 3 pillars to the existential theory leads to the three pillars of the existential theory (that there is an infinite sizerange and therefore a DNA-strand). And when there is a DNA-strand / when there is reproduction with the DNA-strand, then there is 1) survival and death (the ones who survive survive and go forward in evolution), and the 2)nd principle that the number of offspring has significance (that there is a difference between 0 or 1 or 5 or 10 offspring in evolution), and the 3)rd principle is that there is mutation in each generation-shift (that parents are different from their young, that the DNA-strand mutates over time).
When we get to dinosaurs we’ll get to how cortex (the flexible part of the brain) started in birds in order to adapt the brain to the body, so that if the bird was born with a too short wing then the brain could sense that “my body is like this” “so I should fly in another way than if my wings were of equal length”. It adapts the brain to the body and learns to fly normally even if it is hurted or something similar. So we have a flexible part of the brain which starts thus.
Then, after a while, evolves a function where we have two brain-halves: one visual and one linguistic with serotonine (which activates various thoughts, and if a sequence of though leads to some evolutionary benefit (that is: if one’s plan is completeable and leads to happiness) then it is marked with dopamine (as important) and then one continues: serotonine – planning different ways from it and if a way works it is marked with dopamine). This function of having two brain-halves with serotonine and dopamine evolved as a function to let us for example plan our way upward in the hierarchy and therefore get the largest number of offspring. It was a function which was evolutionarily useful.
The 2
nd
function in the brain is classed into three categories: the homeostatic (the internal (hunger and thirst etc), they have to do with the body internally and are a medium-sized category, a medium-sized number of these that are in the body), then there are very many that have to do with our senses (if we see a snake, if we see a squirrel, if we see this or that… and how we react to hearing noises from the bushes (we get anxiety because it’s a tiger)) – there are alot of these social/external which we are made aware of through our senses (so it’s a larger category than the homeostatic one). And a third last tiny category is that which we do when we don’t have any homeostatic or social/external which is interesting, and that is that which we do when we are idle. And that is to plan how to get friends, how to get power, how one gets resources (money), one advances one’s world-view (curiosity), plans reproduction – and those are the approximately 5 things we tend to do when we don’t have anything ongoing. So a little category of those things we do when we are idle.
There is the utilitarian principle that “people seek happiness”, we want to create happiness: and evolution has made us so that we maximize these reproductive benefits (like survival, reproduction and power-seeking and security and expanding one’s world-view). We always maximize them so maybe we don’t have the happiest emotions that the universe allows to have in one’s brain, but instead we have the most maximizing emotions. We have an emotional repertoire which maximizes our chances in evolution. But when we learn more about DNA and how DNA creates the brain, one can create a brain in a jar which has the maximum-happiness-emotions instead of evolutionarily maximizing (greed and such). So I think that the future – since we have this utilitarian principle that we want to maximize happiness – we will create a brain using DNA-engineering which is maximally happy – it needs no body to be that but it can be a brain in a jar which is maximally happy. I think we will create those and they will remain for millions of years, but humanity seems to pollute its planet and finish its oil so in 100 years maybe it starts to go downward for us humans. We finish the planet – the oil doesn’t come back and the pollution remains, so every planet’s (in the infinite universe) history culminates in having a short period of oil (a few hundred years) and then we have these brains which are super-happy in their jars for millions of years. It’s a little bit South Park / Futurama over the whole thing – it’s cartoonish that we create a farm with brains in jars which are the happiest that there is and we humans finish the oil and do ordinary human things. That is the future.
But I thought that this course, in itself, this order in which I’ve presented the ideas; that that setup is universal (they teach the same course on other planets). They begin with the three different beginnings to the course (I think & I exist, distinction & anti-distinction, that it leads to that there is more to Reality than we can know – more sizes – and therefore there ought to be a DNA-strand), or that there is nothing (laws of nature, the laws of nature mention energymass and thus energymass has to exist) and then it leads to a DNA-strand, or that we have 3 pillars (an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime and distinction-anti-distinction-opposition) and that leads to these three pillars which leads to these three principles in the evolurionary theory (that those who survive survive, the number of offspring matters and there is mutation in each generation-shift); then comes cortex which begins by adapting the brain to the animal, and then that it is used to climb up in the hierarchy (for example) – how one gets friends, how one makes different plans… – and therefore comes this left-right-brainhalf with serotonine and dopamine (that function) comes into the game and the one who has the largest brain plans his or her way to the top over millions of years (and this is why the brain grew): because we planned, we are planning animals. And then it ends with that we DNA-engineer brains which are super-happy in their jars, and finish the oil and pollute the planet. And this ought to be how every planets’ history goes and the course itself is taught and exists on other planets too so they teach exactly the same curriculum (so there are infinitely many planets with the same text that we just made).
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/ZOOM0001_01.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
25/01/2017
25/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Interse 25 01 2017 (15 mins)
Posts navigation
Page
1
Page
2
Page
3
Next page
Search for:
Search
Recent Posts
The universal text
715
A
New book (4)
694
Recent Comments
Archives
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
January 2016
Categories
Dagbok
Old
The book + diagrams
Trashcan
Trey
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.org
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Proudly powered by WordPress

Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen – Teach what you study here to end religious wars
Skip to content
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Teach what you study here to end religious wars
The universal text
the universal text
The First Universal Text
Advancing civilzation to end religious conflict
To help & show solidarity toward soldiers...
They´re fighting religious wars where the assumption
of a small minority calling themselves muslims
is that God created earth & gave a violent revalation to prophet Muhammed...
If another theory is proposed to explain why Reality was created & how/why humans came to exist, then the violent revalation & holy war end.
The course which teaches this must be as a universal curriculum designed to maximally convince.
It appeals both of the
motivations of helping soldiers and to learning for learning’s sake (being an intellectual).
It has two starting points:
certain truth (agreement on that we think & we exist)
Nothing (which “doesn’t exist” or exists a-priori (without previous further necessary explanation)).
The fastest way to help soldiers using a universal all-convincing course is like listening to rap music: I’ll connect concepts in a sequence so fast you’ll:
miss alot the first time you isten
listen to it multiple times to catch something new every time
see that I use different ways to present the same set of concept
There are three groups of people:
the intellectuals whom learn for learning’s sake
those who take the moral argument of having solidarity with soldiers (that it’s more moral to drive a car after a bottle of vodka than to not save soldiers’ lives by teaching a course)
those who have to be schooled by an authority.
Have you asked something about:
what God is?
I can tell you everything about God.
First of all: there are two intellectual traditions: the unbound creativity of romanticism & cold rationality. If I were writing in the romantical tradition I would spend effort writing beautiful confusing metaphors and sagas – the opposite of which is like PowerPoint bulletpoints with facts & concepts about God. This is about seeking truth in the rational manner – analysis (thought-through argument) over spontaneous gambling.
I try to create a true argument that can be pumped out of propaganda-loud speakers at ISIS, Boko Haram, Al-Shabaan, Al-Qaida, the taliban etc.
If I can tell enough rationality about their God then their fighting-morality, group-loyalty, mission and cohesion disintegrates.
What I produce is kind of as learning-intensive as the theory of relativity, but if put on loud-speakers on the religious wars’ front-lines is more powerful than any cannon.
My canon that outperforms any cannon is a theory/understanding that can be taught in limitlessly many ways – I might have 5000 concepts and you can talk them in any sequence which gives X many courses that teach my theory/science/world-view.
Instead of teaching the science in a random order, can we derive from logic some starting points for the course (making the curriculum scientific/universal)? Yes – 2 starting points akin to that it is scientific/universal to teach history chronologically.
The two starting points are Nothingness and “I think & I am”.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
The first order of business is defining the starting points along the “Nothingness”-path & the “I think & I am” path.
Everyone spontaneously believes that he/she exists & that he/she thinks thoughts, but a man
figured this out
in the 1600s. He asked: “what in an allmighty demon would be fooling me in everything I can be fooled at/in?” What remains? Allmighty fooler on a mission to fool completely in everything.
He figured out “I exist” because there is a self necessary for a/that self to be fooled.
As a distinct line of reasoning he figured out that “being fooled is [thinking/a thought-process]”, in other words that thought exists as certainly as the self.
That is the starting point on the “I think & I exist”-path.
The starting point on the Nothingness-path is a starting point because no prior reason/justification is possible/necessary. What doesn’t exist need not be explained.
It is said that when the concept 0 was invented the ancients got afraid of it because out [energymass neurons]/brain cannot properly represent something emptier than neurons/brain. Nothingness is emptier than we see it as because we are made of and are using somethingness to represent/see/talk about Nothingness.
The next conclusion – the next step on a logical progression – along the ”I think & I am”-path is that there is distinction. There is distinction between thinker and thought. We listed two conclusions – right? – I think AND I exist. Distinction is the separation between thinker & thought. Distinction exists and is a legitimate word.
The conclusion following along the Nothingness-path is that there are laws of nature i.e. Nothingness is non-absurd. As an example: Nothingness would be absurd i.e. it is not true that a thing is not itself i.e. that 1 is not 1 . It’s not like 1=2 now, but now 1=3, and now 1=254. Laws of nature such as 1=1 are stable over time and do not change. Another law of nature that makes the universe non-absurd is that a triangle is not a sphere (geometric truths). Another law of nature, necessary for a rational cosmos, is E=mc
2
.
The next step along the “think & I am”-path is that the distinction exists in something (or nothing). There is one “that of which all is part”, called anti-distinction, in which distinction exists. Reality is one.
The next step along the “Nothingness - E=mc
2
”-path is that there is a law of nature that states, in order for the universe to be non-absurd, that: “if something, say E=m, is mentioned then it must also [exist/be summoned]”. It would be absurd for Nothingness to state “E=mc
2
” forever without E=m (energymass) ever existing.
Footnote: E=mc
2
– the summoning of energymass – is summoned in the smallest spaces simultaneously resulting in a
dense
Big Bang.
Sub-footnote: I drop Nobel prizes like they were growing on trees: the rationale for how to get from Nothingness to Something and the prediction that the Big Bang should be dense is valuable knowledge.
The next step along the “I think & I am”-path is that observation/representation is distinction. This is a repetition of the step where we said “distinction is a legitimate word i.e. there are
both
thinker AND thought”. We, as observers/representers, are in the distinction-realm – as opposed to the anti-distinction-realm – when we observe/represent/always. This means that we, due to distinction – anti-distinction – opposition, do not see [“that of which all is part”/Reality].
The next step in the Nothingness-path is that there is not just one size. There is a range of sizes – each with energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
) – large to small / small to large. Size & time are connected as spacetime. Everything/anything we know about has a size and a time.
The next step along the I think & I am –path is that, since we do not see Reality (that of which all is part) there is more to Reality than can be [known/distinctly made sense of/hypothesized]. Based on the conclusion that everything has a size & time, there must be more sizes & times than can be hypothesized.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
I switch between the two in a universal way.
I can’t do more universal than tasking the two starts of a universal course and intertwining the logical steps step by step.
I would like to show you two synonymous diagrams. The difference between them is in how time is represented. The difference is the same as between a rolled-out video-tape and a TV.
Imagine ten TV screens stacked in a column. Imagine that the topmost TV shows the largest size, the lowestmost TV shows the smallest size and there is a continuum of TVs/sizes between them.
The other synonymous diagram has size on the vertical axis, time on the horizontal axis and every coordinate represents all of the following:
- a size-time (every object has a size and a time)
- a sub-field of science
- a piece of energymasspacetime.
So far we’ve looked at three different concepts – the self, spacetime and anti-distinction – which, if you see them, look the same.
The self can’t be seen because one is it, spacetime can’t be seen because it’s emptier than neurons can represent it as, and
all of
Reality (anti-distinction) can’t be seen because representation is distinction.
These three concepts are inter-connected, though: the self exists as neurons in spacetime, the self and spacetime exist in Reality.
Reality is defined as all of energymasspacetime
and the self exists as a location within a size-time.
Three unseeable concepts with connections between them.
The phrase “God created earth” is parallelled/rivalled by the phrase “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime and distinction-anti-distinction-opposition”. Both claim to be the explanation to why we exist.
The validity of an existential theory (a theory for why there is existence) is tested by whether it can predict a DNA-strand (and thus the evolution up to humans).
If a theory predicts that there ought to be a DNA-strand (at some coordinate in the infinite
size-time-diagram)
the theory has the scientific predictive quality that a theory needs.
Again, keeping with the universal tradition of this text, just like with the “I think & I am” & “Nothingness” dual paths that I intertwined, the continuation of this book will be written as it is written by others aiming at writing something that can be derived from science (empty space in front of oneself) no matter where in our infinite universe one is located.
The two paths that we meet now are that “the ancients wrote about God/Reality” (how to make
religion make sense in a modern context) and “the existential theory”.
If you want to make the ancients’ concepts God and Soul make sense, God is just a synonym for Reality. I tend to ask religious people:
Is God:
a part within “that of which all is part”/Reality,
a synonym for “that of which all is part”/Reality, or
“beyond”/”outside” Reality (which doesn’t have an outside; anything “outside” is unreal)?
Obviously God has to stay real (there is no spacetime for Him to be located in “outside” energymasspacetime, and I put “outside” in quotes because energymasspacetime has no outside), and God cannot be smaller than (a part of) “that of which all is part”. Allah akbar / God is all-encompassing means there is nothing greater than Him, which is true about the word Reality (energymasspacetime / “that of which all is part”).
We already said that “that of which all is part cannot be observed/represented” (meaning there is more to it than infinitely much hypothesizing/representing) and this is said about God too. We also know that Reality is one (not 2 or 0.75) and this is the meaning of the word monotheism.
The three things we know about God/Reality – that it is one, that one cannot see it and that there’s nothing greater – are too many for the Reality-God-connection (as synonyms) to be coincidence. The ancients had access to the speculation about how we as selves are distinct and therefore Reality (the most all-encompassing), due to it being anti-distinction, is unobservable. God comes as infinite
(1)
size-time-axises of
(2)
energymasspacetime and
(3)
distinction-anti-distinction-opposition, because this three-idea theory predicts the dawn of a DNA-strand.
“That the self can’t be seen because one is it” is an analysis the ancients would’ve had access to too using their civilized survey of what is true about the unavoidable observer in every observation. This makes science warrant and want the word “soul” as a synonym for the “thinker” we looked at in “thinker & thought exist”.
This should’ve answered the question: “which parts of religion make sense in a modern context?”. God and Soul are useful concepts – and we know much more about both thanks to science than the ancients
did. It shouldn’t come as a surprize that the scientific lense’s minimalistic interpretation of religion makes a lot of ritual and dogma unscientific i.e. not universal. I couldn’t possibly add any ritual to this book’s curriculum except that the size-time-diagram is a square so tattoo parlors should see a spike in people wanting that universal diagram tattooed on themselves, along with a triangle (with its tip originating from the center size/center of the square) representing evolution’s increasing complexity/fine-tuning and size of the DNA.
It’s a 3D diagram – the square and the triangle being in two different dimensions.
Notice the square (size-time-diagram) and the triangle (evolution) which together are the existential theory, if you remember that E=mc
2
gave us that it is energymasspacetime and the opposition between distinction and anti-distinction. No matter your location in this infinite space (space of the human size is infinite because the size-range is infinite) you’d arrive at the same picture and text.
Wearing this on t-shirts is as universal of a ritual as we will get.
Let’s break down the existential theory’s (God’s) three ideas:
an infinite size-range (with infinite time because size and time are connected as spacetime). Take your body’s size as an example – it is because of the size larger than itself and the sizes smaller than itself. Sizes are because of one another. If the size-range is infinite then this gives infinitely many reasons for any size existing, in other words “the first cause” it retreating infinitely far into the small and large. This explains why a size-range such as our known range exists at all. This is pillar one of the three-pillar existential theory.
of energymasspacetime. Spacetime is emptier than our neurons can represent it as and human endevours are for evolutionary reasons meant to deal with energymass (existence). E=mc
2
is the equation where energymass is mentioned in the E=m-part and the speed of light squared (speed is space (distance) over time) mentions spacetime – in the same equation; they’re connected. This is a pillar of the existential theory because it explains why there can be something (at every size): it is intertwined (and exists in) Nothingness. In Nothing, Something.
distinction-anti-distinction-opposition i.e. the opposition between distinction (like separate observers) and anti-distinction (defined as “that one of which all is part”). We started this book
with two paths: “I think & I am” (and distinction between them) and Nothingness (which is intertwined with Somethingness/energymass). Both are correct conclusions eventhough we need “both-and -thinking” to deal with the facts that Reality is both one and has distinction in it.
This three-pillared/three-idea existential theory rivals “God created the universe” and predicts that the Big Bang ought to begin as dense (because E=mc
2
is true in the smallest spaces) and end in dark energy/accelarating cosmis expansion i.e. that the universe becomes emptier until a region of Nothingness appears again – the universe hates a vacuum and since E=mc
2
is true in that vacuum, the vacuum cannot remain empty. This three-pillared theory predicts the dense beginning of the universe and the empty end of the universe – both the dense beginning and emptying future can be observed with telescopes. The theory also predicts, since it has an infinite size-range, that there should be a DNA-strand and thus evolution.
God thus can only remain as three possibilities:
God is a synonym for Reality (and thanks to this book, we know the three-pillared theory which goes into detail about God); God is “that of which all is part”, energymasspacetime.
God is an unnecessary assumption – the word God can be dropped out of our vocabularies because the theory works fine stand-alone. We don’t need a synonym for Reality since we do have the word Reality already, so we deny God because it comes with so much superstitious baggage.
God is added - just like Santa Claus, elfs, fairies and unicorns can be added – to the theory eventhough it doesn’t make sense to add it. There is no spacetime “outside” energymasspacetime and hence to place for a God to be; God cannot be separate/distinct from Reality without being unreal.
This book, by being universally written:
proves that space is infinite (because there is infinitely large) and thus other planets with human life should write the exact same book,
presents a universal idea in a near-universal way (distinction between the curriculum and the science itself),
advanced civilization / is the pinnacle of human civilization when it comes to the big questions like God, Soul and the existential theory,
can cause skisms within religious war-groups i.e. end war for religious reasons,
is a propaganda-weapon to be put on loud-speakers on the current wars’ front-lines.
I thought it fitting, to keep the curriculum universal, to add “what this book can do for humanity” right after the chapter about the existential theory. The next chapter will deal with evolution (beginning from a DNA-strand).
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen, Sweden
Author
yonis
Posted on
12/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on The universal text
New Microsoft Word Document (4)
To help & show solidarity toward soldiers...
They´re fighting religious wars where the assumption is that God created earth & gave a violent revalation to prophet Muhammed...
If another theory is proposed to explain why Reality was created & how/why humans came to exist, then the violent revalation & holy war end.
The course which teaches this must be as a universal curriculum designed to maximally convince.
It has two starting points:
certain truth (agreement on that we think & we exist)
Nothing (which “doesn’t exist” or exists a-priori (without previous further necessary explanation)).
The fastest way to help soldiers using a universal all-convincing course is like listening to rap music: I’ll connect concepts in a sequence so fast you’ll:
miss alot the first time you isten
listen to it multiple times to catch something new every time
see that I use different ways to present the same set of concept
There are three groups of people:
the intellectuals whom learn for learning’s sake
those who take the moral argument of having solidarity with soldiers (that it’s more moral to drive a car after a bottle of vodka than to not save soldiers’ lives by teaching a course)
those who have to be schooled by an authority.
Have you asked something about:
what God is?
I can tell you everything about God.
First of all: there are two intellectual traditions: the unbound creativity of romanticism & cold rationality. If I were writing in the romantical tradition I would spend effort writing beautiful confusing metaphors and sagas – the opposite of which is like PowerPoint bulletpoints with facts & concepts about God. This is about seeking truth in the rational manner – analysis (thought-through argument) over spontaneous gambling.
I try to create a true argument that can be pumped out of propaganda-loud speakers at ISIS, Boko Haram, Al-Shabaan, Al-Qaida, the taliban etc.
If I can tell enough rationality about their God then their fighting-morality, group-loyalty, mission and cohesion disintegrates.
What I produce is kind of as learning-intensive as the theory of relativity, but if put on loud-speakers on the religious wars’ front-lines is more powerful than any cannon.
My canon that outperforms any cannon is a theory/understanding that can be taught in limitlessly many ways – I might have 5000 concepts and you can talk them in any sequence which gives X many courses that teach my theory/science/world-view.
Instead of teaching the science in a random order, can we derive from logic some starting points for the course (making the curriculum scientific/universal)? Yes – 2 starting points akin to that it is scientific/universal to teach history chronologically.
The two starting points are Nothingness and “I think & I am”.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
The first order of business is defining the starting points along the “Nothingness”-path & the “I think & I am” path.
Everyone spontaneously believes that he/she exists & that he/she thinks thoughts, but a man
figured this out
in the 1600s. He asked: “what in an allmighty demon would be fooling me in everything I can be fooled at/in?” What remains? Allmighty fooler on a mission to fool completely in everything.
He figured out “I exist” because there is a self necessary for a/that self to be fooled.
As a distinct line of reasoning he figured out that “being fooled is [thinking/a thought-process]”, in other words that thought exists as certainly as the self.
That is the starting point on the “I think & I exist”-path.
The starting point on the Nothingness-path is a starting point because no prior reason/justification is possible/necessary. What doesn’t exist need not be explained.
It is said that when the concept 0 was invented the ancients got afraid of it because out [energymass neurons]/brain cannot properly represent something emptier than neurons/brain. Nothingness is emptier than we see it as because we are made of and are using somethingness to represent/see/talk about Nothingness.
The next conclusion – the next step on a logical progression – along the ”I think & I am”-path is that there is distinction. There is distinction between thinker and thought. We listed two conclusions – right? – I think AND I exist. Distinction is the separation between thinker & thought. Distinction exists and is a legitimate word.
The conclusion following along the Nothingness-path is that there are laws of nature i.e. Nothingness is non-absurd. As an example: Nothingness would be absurd i.e. it is not true that a thing is not itself i.e. that 1 is not 1 . It’s not like 1=2 now, but now 1=3, and now 1=254. Laws of nature such as 1=1 are stable over time and do not change. Another law of nature that makes the universe non-absurd is that a triangle is not a sphere (geometric truths). Another law of nature, necessary for a rational cosmos, is E=mc
2
.
The next step along the “think & I am”-path is that the distinction exists in something (or nothing). There is one “that of which all is part”, called anti-distinction, in which distinction exists. Reality is one.
The next step along the “Nothingness - E=mc
2
”-path is that there is a law of nature that states, in order for the universe to be non-absurd, that: “if something, say E=m, is mentioned then it must also [exist/be summoned]”. It would be absurd for Nothingness to state “E=mc
2
” forever without E=m (energymass) ever existing.
Footnote: E=mc
2
– the summoning of energymass – is summoned in the smallest spaces simultaneously resulting in a
dense
Big Bang.
Sub-footnote: I drop Nobel prizes like they were growing on trees: the rationale for how to get from Nothingness to Something and the prediction that the Big Bang should be dense is valuable knowledge.
The next step along the “I think & I am”-path is that observation/representation is distinction. This is a repetition of the step where we said “distinction is a legitimate word i.e. there are
both
thinker AND thought”. We, as observers/representers, are in the distinction-realm – as opposed to the anti-
distinction-realm – when we observe/represent/always. This means that we, due to distinction – anti-distinction – opposition, do not see [“that of which all is part”/Reality].
The next step in the Nothingness-path is that there is not just one size. There is a range of sizes – each with energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
) – large to small / small to large. Size & time are connected as spacetime. Everything/anything we know about has a size and a time.
The next step along the I think & I am –path is that, since we do not see Reality (that of which all is part) there is more to Reality than can be [known/distinctly made sense of/hypothesized]. Based on the conclusion that everything has a size & time, there must be more sizes & times than can be hypothesized.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
I switch between the two in a universal way.
I can’t do more universal than tasking the two starts of a universal course and intertwining the logical steps step by step.
I would like to show you two synonymous diagrams. The difference between them is in how time is represented. The difference is the same as between a rolled-out video-tape and a TV.
Imagine ten TV screens stacked in a column. Imagine that the topmost TV shows the largest size, the lowestmost TV shows the smallest size and there is a continuum of TVs/sizes between them.
The other synonymous diagram has size on the vertical axis, time on the horizontal axis and every coordinate represents all of the following:
- a size-time (every object has a size and a time)
- a sub-field of science
- a piece of energymasspacetime.
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen, Sweden
Author
yonis
Posted on
09/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
A
New Microsoft Word Document (4)
New Microsoft Word Document (4)
Author
yonis
Posted on
09/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on A
New book (4)
To help & show solidarity toward soldiers…
They´re fighting religious wars where the assumption is that God created earth & gave a violent revalation to prophet Muhammed…
If another theory is proposed to explain why Reality was created & how/why humans came to exist, then the violent revalation & holy war end.
The course which teaches this must be as a universal curriculum designed to maximally convince.
It has two starting points:
certain truth (agreement on that we think & we exist)
Nothing (which “doesn’t exist” or exists a-priori (without previous further necessary explanation)).
The fastest way to help soldiers using a universal all-convincing course is like listening to rap music: I’ll connect concepts in a sequence so fast you’ll:
miss alot the first time you isten
listen to it multiple times to catch something new every time
see that I use different ways to present the same set of concept
There are three groups of people:
the intellectuals whom learn for learning’s sake
those who take the moral argument of having solidarity with soldiers (that it’s more moral to drive a car after a bottle of vodka than to not save soldiers’ lives by teaching a course)
those who have to be schooled by an authority.
Have you asked something about:
what God is?
I can tell you everything about God.
First of all: there are two intellectual traditions: the unbound creativity of romanticism & cold rationality. If I were writing in the romantical tradition I would spend effort writing beautiful confusing metaphors and sagas – the opposite of which is like PowerPoint bulletpoints with facts & concepts about God. This is about seeking truth in the rational manner – analysis (thought-through argument) over spontaneous gambling.
I try to create a true argument that can be pumped out of propaganda-loud speakers at ISIS, Boko Haram, Al-Shabaan, Al-Qaida, the taliban etc.
If I can tell enough rationality about their God then their fighting-morality, group-loyalty, mission and cohesion disintegrates.
What I produce is kind of as learning-intensive as the theory of relativity, but if put on loud-speakers on the religious wars’ front-lines is more powerful than any cannon.
My canon that outperforms any cannon is a theory/understanding that can be taught in limitlessly many ways – I might have 5000 concepts and you can talk them in any sequence which gives X many courses that teach my theory/science/world-view.
Instead of teaching the science in a random order, can we derive from logic some starting points for the course (making the curriculum scientific/universal)? Yes – 2 starting points akin to that it is scientific/universal to teach history chronologically.
The two starting points are Nothingness and “I think & I am”.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
The next conclusion – the next step on a logical progression – along the ”I think & I am”-path is that there is distinction. There is distinction between thinker and thought. We listed two conclusions – right? – I think AND I exist. Distinction is the separation between thinker & thought. Distinction exists and is a legitimate word.
The conclusion following along the Nothingness-path is that there are laws of nature i.e. Nothingness is non-absurd. As an example: Nothingness would be absurd i.e. it is not true that a thing is not itself i.e. that 1 is not 1 . It’s not like 1=2 now, but now 1=3, and now 1=254. Laws of nature such as 1=1 are stable over time and do not change. Another law of nature that makes the universe non-absurd is that a triangle is not a sphere (geometric truths). Another law of nature, necessary for a rational cosmos, is E=mc
2
.
The next step along the “think & I am”-path is that the distinction exists in something (or nothing). There is one “that of which all is part”, called anti-distinction, in which distinction exists. Reality is one.
The next step along the “Nothingness – E=mc
2
”-path is that there is a law of nature that states, in order for the universe to be non-absurd, that: “if something, say E=m, is mentioned then it must also [exist/be summoned]”. It would be absurd for Nothingness to state “E=mc
2
” forever without E=m (energymass) ever existing.
Footnote: E=mc
2
– the summoning of energymass – is summoned in the smallest spaces simultaneously resulting in a
dense
Big Bang.
Sub-footnote: I drop Nobel prizes like they were growing on trees: the rationale for how to get from Nothingness to Something and the prediction that the Big Bang should be dense is valuable knowledge.
The next step along the “I think & I am”-path is that observation/representation is distinction. This is a repetition of the step where we said “distinction is a legitimate word i.e. there are
both
thinker AND thought”. We, as observers/representers, are in the distinction-realm – as opposed to the anti-distinction-realm – when we observe/represent/always. This means that we, due to distinction – anti-distinction – opposition, do not see [“that of which all is part”/Reality].
The next step in the Nothingness-path is that there is not just one size. There is a range of sizes – each with energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
) – large to small / small to large. Size & time are connected as spacetime. Everything/anything we know about has a size and a time.
The next step along the I think & I am –path is that, since we do not see Reality (that of which all is part) there is more to Reality than can be [known/distinctly made sense of/hypothesized]. Based on the conclusion that everything has a size & time, there must be more sizes & times than can be hypothesized.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
I switch between the two in a universal way.
I can’t do more universal than tasking the two starts of a universal course and intertwining the logical steps step by step.
Author
yonis
Posted on
07/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on New book (4)
If you eradicate religion from the face of the earth then theres not as much to build little militant enclaves around. Group-bonding will be based on friendships, companies and governments – not religious affiliations. Eradicating religion breaks down something evil at the core of human beings.
If religion is eradicated then there is no pretext such as jihad for mere power/resource-grabbing, revenge, hybris etc. The true purpose of future wars will be clearer, blatant and more awkward if religion is out of the way.
Then we have those few terrorist nutcases who actually believe in (violent) religion and they need to be reached by my teaching.
Author
yonis
Posted on
04/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
Solidarity with soldiers
Author
yonis
Posted on
03/02/2017
03/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Solidarity with soldiers
Solidarity with soldiers
Author
yonis
Posted on
02/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Solidarity with soldiers
Universal course has 3 beginnings leading up to DNA
Author
yonis
Posted on
01/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Universal course has 3 beginnings leading up to DNA
Religious war
Author
yonis
Posted on
01/02/2017
01/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Religious war
Interse 25 01 2017 (15 mins)
Everyone agrees they they themselves exist, because if one would get fooled in everyone one can be fooled in then one would exist there anyway and be fooled. So one knows that one exists. Then one also knows that one thinks because “to get fooled” is a thought-process. Thus we have two things: I think and I exist. And the distinction between them: and on the flipside of the paper we have the opposite of that: anti-distinction, and this can also be called “that of which all is part”/Reality. And since we are in the distinction-side of the paper when we see something; when we see something there is distinction between us and that thing. Thus we cannot represent or see that which is on the other side of the paper i.e. that of which all is part / Reality. Nothing can represent – because it is distinct – Reality. So whatever which is distinct cannot… whatever that is observed or represented is distinct and therefore is not… therefore does not represent Reality / “that of which all is part”. So we have distinction and anti-distinction as opposing poles.
This leads to that there is more to Reality than we can represent; or that anything can represent – be it a computer or a coffee-cup or whatever. And if there is more to Reality and what we know about Reality is that it comes as a size-time-diagram…; that there are sizes and times. One can draw it as a diagram with size on one axis and time on the other, then there is more to that diagram than we can represent. In other words the sizerange is infinite and the size-axis is infinite. We can think about a bigger size than  the largest we know and then we are representing it – we have a hypothesis about it. And even in that case it is true that we are on the distinction-side of the paper, we are representing (which includes distinction) and therefore there is even more than we can even hypothesize about (regarding Reality).
In an infinite sizerange of infinitely much time there ought to be a little DNA-strand which reproduces itself; i.e. if the sizerange is infinite from quantum physics to cosmology and infinitely much past the largest and the smallest then there is a DNA-strand somewhere in that infinity. Thus we have reached DNA from certain truth: from that we think and we exist, to distinction, to anti-distinction, to that there is more to Reality than we can observe/represent and therefore there is more to the size-axis than we can hypothesize, and therefore there is a DNA-strand.
The second way of coming to the DNA-strand from a good beginning is that we start with nothing. In nothing – empty space… which is emptier than our neurons think of it as. We are made of energymass, we are made of something so we have a hard time representing nothing; nothing is emptier than we represent it as. In this nothing there are laws of nature such as 1 is 1; it is not absurd: it is not so that right now 1=1, but now 1 is 2, and now 1 is 155, but instead one always equals one. Such laws of nature are built-in into nothing. The law of nature that a triangle is not a sphere. Another law of nature is E=mc
2
– that energymass is found in the same equation as spacetime is found in – and spacetime is again that nothingness (and it is joined together with energymass in E=mc
2
). So we get something from nothing, that is to say something and nothing are intertwined and it is the laws of nature between them which makes it so that one can logically say that “in nothing exists E=mc
2
, E=mc
2
mentions energymass/existence, and therefore existence much exist because nothing cannot mention existence without existence existing. This existence then comes as an infinite sizerange and then we arrive at the DNA-strand again: that it ought to exist as existence in an infinite sizerange.
We have started with nothing, went to the laws of nature, to E=mc
2
which mentions energymass and thus energymass has to exist because if it is mentioned then it must also exist (otherwise it’d be absurd). And thus we reach the DNA-strand from nothing.
The third way of beginning this course with is that we have three pillars to the existential theory: we have an infinite sizerange, of energymasspacetime (something & nothing),  and we have this left-and-right-side-of-the-paper (distinction & anti-distinction). In an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime and distinction- anti-distinction –opposition.
All of these three roads, that is to say: I think and I exist; nothing and the 3 pillars to the existential theory leads to the three pillars of the existential theory (that there is an infinite sizerange and therefore a DNA-strand). And when there is a DNA-strand / when there is reproduction with the DNA-strand, then there is 1) survival and death (the ones who survive survive and go forward in evolution), and the 2)nd principle that the number of offspring has significance (that there is a difference between 0 or 1 or 5 or 10 offspring in evolution), and the 3)rd principle is that there is mutation in each generation-shift (that parents are different from their young, that the DNA-strand mutates over time).
When we get to dinosaurs we’ll get to how cortex (the flexible part of the brain) started in birds in order to adapt the brain to the body, so that if the bird was born with a too short wing then the brain could sense that “my body is like this” “so I should fly in another way than if my wings were of equal length”. It adapts the brain to the body and learns to fly normally even if it is hurted or something similar. So we have a flexible part of the brain which starts thus.
Then, after a while, evolves a function where we have two brain-halves: one visual and one linguistic with serotonine (which activates various thoughts, and if a sequence of though leads to some evolutionary benefit (that is: if one’s plan is completeable and leads to happiness) then it is marked with dopamine (as important) and then one continues: serotonine – planning different ways from it and if a way works it is marked with dopamine). This function of having two brain-halves with serotonine and dopamine evolved as a function to let us for example plan our way upward in the hierarchy and therefore get the largest number of offspring. It was a function which was evolutionarily useful.
The 2
nd
function in the brain is classed into three categories: the homeostatic (the internal (hunger and thirst etc), they have to do with the body internally and are a medium-sized category, a medium-sized number of these that are in the body), then there are very many that have to do with our senses (if we see a snake, if we see a squirrel, if we see this or that… and how we react to hearing noises from the bushes (we get anxiety because it’s a tiger)) – there are alot of these social/external which we are made aware of through our senses (so it’s a larger category than the homeostatic one). And a third last tiny category is that which we do when we don’t have any homeostatic or social/external which is interesting, and that is that which we do when we are idle. And that is to plan how to get friends, how to get power, how one gets resources (money), one advances one’s world-view (curiosity), plans reproduction – and those are the approximately 5 things we tend to do when we don’t have anything ongoing. So a little category of those things we do when we are idle.
There is the utilitarian principle that “people seek happiness”, we want to create happiness: and evolution has made us so that we maximize these reproductive benefits (like survival, reproduction and power-seeking and security and expanding one’s world-view). We always maximize them so maybe we don’t have the happiest emotions that the universe allows to have in one’s brain, but instead we have the most maximizing emotions. We have an emotional repertoire which maximizes our chances in evolution. But when we learn more about DNA and how DNA creates the brain, one can create a brain in a jar which has the maximum-happiness-emotions instead of evolutionarily maximizing (greed and such). So I think that the future – since we have this utilitarian principle that we want to maximize happiness – we will create a brain using DNA-engineering which is maximally happy – it needs no body to be that but it can be a brain in a jar which is maximally happy. I think we will create those and they will remain for millions of years, but humanity seems to pollute its planet and finish its oil so in 100 years maybe it starts to go downward for us humans. We finish the planet – the oil doesn’t come back and the pollution remains, so every planet’s (in the infinite universe) history culminates in having a short period of oil (a few hundred years) and then we have these brains which are super-happy in their jars for millions of years. It’s a little bit South Park / Futurama over the whole thing – it’s cartoonish that we create a farm with brains in jars which are the happiest that there is and we humans finish the oil and do ordinary human things. That is the future.
But I thought that this course, in itself, this order in which I’ve presented the ideas; that that setup is universal (they teach the same course on other planets). They begin with the three different beginnings to the course (I think & I exist, distinction & anti-distinction, that it leads to that there is more to Reality than we can know – more sizes – and therefore there ought to be a DNA-strand), or that there is nothing (laws of nature, the laws of nature mention energymass and thus energymass has to exist) and then it leads to a DNA-strand, or that we have 3 pillars (an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime and distinction-anti-distinction-opposition) and that leads to these three pillars which leads to these three principles in the evolurionary theory (that those who survive survive, the number of offspring matters and there is mutation in each generation-shift); then comes cortex which begins by adapting the brain to the animal, and then that it is used to climb up in the hierarchy (for example) – how one gets friends, how one makes different plans… – and therefore comes this left-right-brainhalf with serotonine and dopamine (that function) comes into the game and the one who has the largest brain plans his or her way to the top over millions of years (and this is why the brain grew): because we planned, we are planning animals. And then it ends with that we DNA-engineer brains which are super-happy in their jars, and finish the oil and pollute the planet. And this ought to be how every planets’ history goes and the course itself is taught and exists on other planets too so they teach exactly the same curriculum (so there are infinitely many planets with the same text that we just made).
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/ZOOM0001_01.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
25/01/2017
25/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Interse 25 01 2017 (15 mins)
Posts navigation
Page
1
Page
2
Page
3
Next page
Search for:
Search
Recent Posts
The universal text
715
A
New book (4)
694
Recent Comments
Archives
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
January 2016
Categories
Dagbok
Old
The book + diagrams
Trashcan
Trey
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.org
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Proudly powered by WordPress

Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen – Teach what you study here to end religious wars
Skip to content
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Teach what you study here to end religious wars
Text (12 pages)
I can tell you everything about God.
This book won’t be a commentary on any holy book though; it won’t be in the tradition of interpretation of dogmas, sagas and mysteries. It won’t be a mystic’s spiritual book which disengages the rational analytical mind. Instead I’ll tell you everything about God in the tradition that Einstein and philosophers belonged to. It will be an algebra-like linguistic relationship-between-symbols (with just two visuals) analysis of what’s true.
I can tell you everything about God in the rational tradition – but before you think this will be an atheistic refutation of God, I might aswell reveal beforehand that God & Soul are legitimate concepts and we’ll discover their rational roots tens of thousands of years ago in this book. There is a natural narrative i.e. logical cohesion from step to step in the anatomy/history of the brain that leads up to the invention of God & Soul. The mind-processes/conscious abilities which result in God & Soul being realized and thus the ideas getting an impact on the world are utilized by simple means – it is relatively easy to just stumble upon God as an idea. This is why God & Soul date back to caveman days – they’re one of the earliest artifacts of civilization: like the spear.
To tell you everything about God I should do semantics i.e. define what I mean by the word God. I won’t mention dogmas other than The Golden Rule (do onto others like you’d want them to do onto you) not rituals other than showing universal scientific symbols (like the figures in this book) – what I’ll tell you about God will be rational/abstract/theoretical and not some pretext for following one culture’s dogmas/rituals over the other 10 000 religions’ dogmas/rituals.
I’ll show you how to for yourself figure out what God is, instead of turn you to any particular raising-paradigm/holy book.
There are three groups of people:
The intellectuals who are life-long learners learning for learning’s sake; the readers who are curious for the joy of answers and read for reading’s sake.
Those who see some reason to read/learn. I’ll tell you that the reason for making the arguments in this book popular is because almost every single war/conflict in today’s world is God-related.
Knowing this book shows solidarity toward soldiers (if it’s a religious war) – teaching the idea that this book teaches can save soldiers’ lives. There is the moral argument that “it is more moral to drink & drive than to not save soldiers’ lives by helping make a book/idea popular”. If made popular, this book can make ISIS desintegrate and plunge into a civil war because nothing no longer binds them together in large a group (like “the kaliphate/the Quran/their god does).
Those who are not intellectuals/readers nor do they show solidarity toward everyone negatively impacted by misinterpretations of religions.
The name of this book hints at that I’ll try to write as closely as possible to what all revalations claimed to be: universal i.e. applicable to everyone. I’ll try to make the sequence of logic i.e. arguments i.e. what’s akin to an equation as universal as possible, meaning it can be figured out / derived no matter who or where one is. The implications of this is that this semi-revalation sequence-of-argument/logic is derived from the same Source identically on every human-like-life bearing planet in this infinite universe. This is why I call this text “The First Universal Text” preassuming the footnote that this text marks the beginning of a new intellectual tradition which is defined by its mission: to write universally. The idea in this book can be told in many less universal ways (which are maybe 0.001% of how the idea is “usually” (in the infinite universe) taught), but I’ll try to aim for the 99% usuality of how the idea is usually taught i.e. how the curriculum meta to the idea is designed. How do you design the curriculum – when a million different curriculums are possible and result in the readers learning the same idea – to be as universal as possible?
Instead of teaching the idea/science in a random order, can we derive from logic some starting points for the course (making the curriculum universal)? Yes: two starting points stand out akin to that it is logical to teach history chronologically; the two starting points for understanding God/creation/the universe are Nothingness & “I think & I am”.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
The first order of business is defining the starting points along the “Nothingness”-path & the “I think & I am” path.
Everyone spontaneously believes that he/she exists & that he/she thinks thoughts, but a man
figured this out
in the 1600s. He asked: “what in an allmighty demon would be fooling me in everything I can be fooled at/in?” What remains? Allmighty fooler on a mission to fool completely in everything.
He figured out “I exist” because there is a self necessary for a/that self to be fooled.
As a distinct line of reasoning he figured out that “being fooled is [thinking/a thought-process]”, in other words that thought exists as certainly as the self.
That is the starting point on the “I think & I exist”-path.
The man who figured this out in the 1600s, Descartes, didn’t do it to make a joke abour proving scientifically the most obvious, but he knew he had discovered a globally understandable starting point with much significance for religious conflicts. Descartes was invited to live at the queen of Sweden’s castle because of his creative rational thinking. He also invented the coordinate system ( x & y axis) to contribute to mathematics’ intellectual tradition. In this book we’ll reach Descartes’ coordinate-system invention (with size on the y-axis and time on the x-axis as the size-time diagram into which every object fits in as a coordinate) from Descartes’ “I think & BI am”-invention; the two are connected in logic but were not historically connected/associated together until I did it (400 years after Descartes invented both things).
How can you verify that what I said right now is true? I stated a historical claim about the non-associatedness of two ideas (invented by one and the same thinker). Unless you’re a history-of-science intellectual-tradition-historian you’d have a hard time verifying my claim of me deserving a prize for adding the logic that connects “I think & I am” to mathematics’ coordinate system (and the size-time diagram more specifically). Luckily the best university professors in sciences’ intellectual history are available on the internet (The Great Courses.com) and they go specifically into this topic in the “Philosophy of Mind” and “History of Science” courses – and since the best professors mention Descartes’ two ideas in one breath but
not the connection between them in a 40-lecture course, you know that not even the best current minds know the connection i.e. I’ve invented something new (which is the logic that binds the two ideas together). It is fascinating, though, that one man (Descartes) invented two ideas that would be connected into a single logical sequence in which both ideas are necessary 400 years after his death.
Descartes’ certain truth (I think & I am) is in scientific circles referred to as “cogito ergo sum”, which is latin for:
- cognition (thinking)
- ergo = therefore
- sum = existence / I am.
I prefer to call it “I think & I am” though because it (especially the &-symbol) points out that they/there are two distinct conclusions – the logical pathways for deriving them are slightly different from one another.
Remember this as the word “distinction” because we’ll continue from that word when we return to this topic.
Chapter 2
I think & I am being derived as two distinct/separate statements through two distinct logical paths is quite abstract since some of the reasoning contains no pictures – the visual brainhalf is at some moments during the reasoning disengaged, making those parts of reasoning abstract. We’ll encounter much more abstract reasoning-pathways in this book, which is why it’s important to, in the beginning of the book, do reasoning about why some abstract reasonings are so hard to grasp that it took until the 21
st
century (me) to discover them.
As evolved animals we are made to maximize our re-arrangement of the natural, physical world for evolutionary benefits. We are not made to re-arrange the (non-existent; for superstitious people only) spiritual world. Nor are we made to deal with invisible mental objects – and we’ll deal with three of them – like glass windows. As long as we’ve had possessions we’ve had the ability to recognize if some possession was missing – we’ve had the cognitive system for spontaneously counting/seeing zero long before written symbols for numbers were invented. Written symbols for positive numbers were invented before the concept zero was invented. Zero, however, is one of those words which’s understanding shouldn’t conjure up any visuals. There can be plenty of linguistic explanation of features associated to the concept zero and one of them is that zer is non-visual (shouldn’t conjure up imaginations) meaning that the visuals we use for representing zero (such as the symbol 0) are just fingers pointing to a deeper tunderlying truth (which is invisible) – don’t look at the pointer/finger; but why does the brain have a hard time doing this? The simple answer is that we evolved to re-arrange the visible – we had no evolutionary benefits from the invisible.
It gets quite abstract, unintuitive and for said evolutionary reasons “unusual” (and civilized) when we’ll, later in this book, account for the explanation-based connections between three invisible (purely linguistic) ideas/concepts.
The reason why the message of this book is unintuitive (didn’t use to be an evolutionary benefit) and was discovered first in the 21
st
century has its explanation in the evolution & anatomy of the brain. Evolution and anatomy go hand in hand like history shapes architecture and intrastructure shapes history.
It’s worthwhile looking at which evolution+anatomy-explanation, other wthan “we evolved to deal with the visible world and thus feel awkward about the invisible”, explains our repulsion toward the abstract/invisible eventhough our logic proves that it is true – the idea of this book is much like algebra and we should now look at why, evolution-anatomically, require a while to get as comfortable as one can get to the invisible ideas of this book.
We have two major modalities for remembering/understanding/explaining things: the visual (sensory) and the linguistic (abstract). They cooperate to let the animal adapt to its environment (by, for example, making plans based on future predictions (which themselves are based on abstract and sensory memories)). Some things that the visual brainhalf can do the abstract can’t do and vice versa. Whichever brainhalf most efficiently and strongly accomplishes a task is utilized to make the animal competative in the chase for evolutionary benefits.
This cooperation and communication between the two differentrly specialized brainhalves is a function/mutation which arose because it gave evolutionary benefits. The genes that gave rise to this brainhalves-cooperating-function – which is based on either brainhalf specializing in either the visible or the invisible/abstract field of cognition – built on the earlier mutation/evolutionary benefit/trait of having a flexible (during the lifetime changing) part of the brain known as cortex.
The cortex first arose to “adapt the brain to the body” meaning that if the body mutated/got a birth defect/got injured/muscles got tired or weak, then still the animal could function to maximize evolutionary benefits despite its new bodily circumstances.
The brain adapting to the body, in case let’s say an injury to the body, gave the organism a Super Mario-like extra life/extra chance – for example a bird with a 50% weaker left wing than right wing could, because of the flexible cortex, know/learn/acknowledge its disposition and adapt tits behavior/muscular movements to counteract the disadvantages that would’ve came about if the animal didn’t have a cortex. For example a bird meant to fly straight (seeing a butterfly in front of it) with a 50% weaker left wing would’ve sent the same muscular-activation-signal to both wings, but due to the weakness of the left wing the bird would’ve
been flying counter-clockwise circles/faulty steering. With a small part of the bird’s brain that’s flexible i.e. able to learn, the saying “a cat has nine lives”
became more real. This is a major benefit from the rather small mutation of having a flexible middle-man in the feedback loop from and to the muscle. Parrots obviously have a flexible part of the brain since they can learn to mimic sounds, dating back the first cortex to sometime around when birds had become complex enough to mutate just a few cortical neurons in the right place. The virtue of the very nature/anatomy of cortical neurons is that even a couple of neurons can be wired so that they 1) sense 100% activation of both wings intended by the brain, 2) sense feedback from the wings telling that the left wing only flexed with 50% of its strength, and 3) either inhibit the right wing’s activation by 50% or increase the muscular excitement to the left wing so that it reaches 150% - in either case the feedback loop with the flexible middleman makes both wings flap equally (if the bird wants to fly straight) even if one wing is injured/mutated/weak.
That is the origin/dawn/beginning of the cortex and dates it back to about 100 million years ago.
Building, through mutation, on that earliest cortex simpy enlargening the cortex would’ve allowed the cortical cells to exhibit new benefitial traits. Remembering that adapting (the brain) not only to one’s body but to the external environment too is, like cats do, building a simple mental map of the objects in one’s environment and learning from experience what can and can’t be done with them.
It’s quite straight-forward that a larger cortex – tin the animals whom need cognitive adaptiation to the environment to reap maximum evolutionary benefits – is better.
Along the story of humanity we formed hierarchical groups (king, aristocrats and slaves) and at about the same time possessions (and thus the first encounter with an abstract invisible: “my thing is missing!”) became a part of the human story.
Speaking of possessions – specifically the ownership of intellectual property – the courses I’ve seen on anthropology, archeology and Big History all fail to mention that the capitalist drive of the biggest cortexed proto-human smarting his or her way to the top of (or upward in the) hierarchy led to
evolutionary pressures growing the cortex. The cortex with the most mass compared to its rival cortexes had 1) faster planning, 2) more memory and 3) more detailed social (personality) and environmental maps. Power-hungriness – the ambition to climb upward in the hierarchy – let to the cortex growing generation after generation.
Among many reasons, other than that the king orders his protectors/servants, is that females are attracted to the king because he commands the most resouces (especiallyu food-supply (which is necessary for maximizing any female’s number of offspring)). The most modern/civilized analogy/equivalent to a large food-supply is possession of ownership of intellectual property – in this case the fact that one of the world’s best archelogists/proto-human experts said that it is an explicit eunexplained mystery/question of science why the brain/cortex grew so very much during the latest era of burst-like brain-growth (the past 100 000 years). I like I said, claim that it was hierarchical upward mobility (and the king having the most babies) due to faster-, more accurate-, based on more memorized foundation- and predicting further into the future-planning (cortical abilities which correlated to the size of the cortex and which are more likely to elevate one, instead of lower one’s status, in the hierarchy). My claim that hierarchies made the cortex grow is intellectual property of my ownership.
The reasons for growth of the cortex illuminate what hkinds of thinking the brain dealt with and is made to deal with. There’s even negative incentives to think about the invisible (like zero): we base our reasoning off of and on our planning ability. In our plans we use the mediating concept “then” alot, just like we do in algebra (1+1=2 is much like 1+1 then 2) & argument. In arguments you set up premises that lead to (“then”) conclusions which in turn (“then”) become premises.
In evolution (and thus in the anatomy of our brains) sometimes plans had or resulted in a “???”-step; if some premise/step/conclusion in a plan was empty, this was our “symbol” (null) for considering the plan impossible, unfinished or not worthwhile committing as action.
Since reasoning about universal curriculum starting points like “I think & I am” and all the arguments between the start and fully explaining God/creation/the universe as 21
st
century science involves legitimate but invisible arguments (like zero), this book can feel like a plan in which one step was null/empty – and thus, despite verbal logic’s disagreement, the theory of brain-evolution predicts that the logic will feel like a plan gone wrong (or which is unfinished/faulty). The impossibility of making the steps of argument/logic in this book visual – and explicitly claiming that we’ll deal with three distinct but invisible (and thus looking the same & making the “plan” (upon which reasoning is based) feel faulty). What speaks against the feeling of “fault in the plan/reasoning”, though, are that:
the logic, eventhough triggering the feeling of “this is faulty/unfinished” by speaking of any of the invisible concepts, makes sense by being thorough logic, like solving equations, beginning from the premise/conclusion of Descartes’ certain truth.
It is possible to know the message of this book (including the three interconnected invisible ideas) without knowing or having chosen a specific curriculum for teaching the idaeas. The fact that many people can formulate the same ideas and logic between novel associations in practically infinitely many ways, and still be agreed upon and comprehendable by peers shows the disconnect between the (more or less universal) curriculum and the (unchanging) underlying
idea. The idea is the scientific world-view and there are unlimited ways to communicate/teach it. This scientific world-view is a new version, including
a full explanation of God, of something that has been developing as a continuation of the history of (the curious, map-making) cortex.
Because argument/reasoning/logic is based on and is planted in planning (re-arraning real-world objects), truth/validity is based on the visualizable (“if you see it (happening in the future or further on in logic) you’ll believe it”) and we’ll be listing the facts about three unseeable objects, and world-views/diagrams which explain the universe/a coordinate-system-based existential theory is based on cognitive maps of the geographical and social environment, we’re using old cognitive abilities basically used for surviving on the savannah to do abstract 21
st
century science. This is why 21
st
century science feels awkward/unintuitive/faulty etc eventhough the logic can be put on paper like the solution of an equation, each step be verified, no faults found and thus one can feel the uniquely modern discongruity/mismatch between what one can 100% certainly know to be true, and the emotion which comes from the mismatch between, for example, an abstract diagram-based map of Reality and the cognitive million year old simple map-making-ability in which the 21
st
century abstract “map”/diagram is rooted. We’re using old abilities/mechanisms to do new things, overcoming rules like “if you can’t see one step (but “only” know it linguistically) the plan/reasoning is lacking” – we can use the number zero but thinking about its meaning in “101” (no tens) gives an awkward feeling of “something went wrong” (eventhough civilizing/reasoning/understaning/logic can subdue the awkward “something-went-wrong-because-I-can’t-see-it”-feeling. Likewise I will state “you can’t see X because...” at least three times in this book, explicitly claiming that that logic at that point will feel unintuitive (eventhough it can be put on paper and make sense) unless the feeling is subdued by civilizing. The evolved traits like “can’t see it = it doesn’t make sense yet = give it up” are why no-one discovered the message of this book until the 21
st
century. Our frontier-pushing reasoning is like a plant planted in a foundation (evolved cognitive traits like “can’t see it = don’t believe it”) which is not very fertile for plants; if we are a plant, our roots have hit some poisons in the dirt. For 21
st
century reasoning, our brain as in obstacle course. We have some genetically-based cognitive hinderances for our universal reasoning.
Chapter 3
If we call the path that begins with “I think & I am” “path A”, since we have two equally legitimate starting points to the curriculum that explains God, we can call the other path/starting point “path B”.
Definitions: all the following are synonyms: Nothing, spacetime, 0, zero, emptiness,
non-existence,
the void...
It’s legitimate to ask “what preceded [nothing]?” because we are in a non-empty universe which is becoming emptier by the moment (this is a well-known fact among cosmologists & the accelerating expansion/emptying is called “dark energy”). It is not legitimate, however, to ask the other “why?”-question about Nothingness: even though Nothingness has a chronological cause (because our universe will become nothing again), it doesn’t have a cause-and-effect relationship other than the chronological one, making the question: “why was there nothingness (and don’t give the chronological answer!)?” illegitimate. Nothingness is a starting point in reasoning
- it warrants no prior justification; as Kant
would’ve said: it is the precondition in which everything happens: it is “a-priori” meaning none were prior to it in a meaningful cause-and-effect relationship because nothingness doesn’t exist.
What doesn’t exist denies the question: “why does it exist?” – it doesn’t! This makes Nothingness a valid starting point, path B, in a universal curriculum.
Nothingness and “I think & I am” are equally good starting points.
Asking “what is true about nothing?” or ”what is true in nothing?” is the starting point along path B of this universal curriculum.
One thing I usually say about nothingness is that it is emptier than we can imagine it as. Whatever your mind can produce, it’s still the mind producing it – we can’t escape the mind’s perspective i.e. its biological nature of everything it does (even when saying “nothing”) being neurons. Real nothingness is emptier than even our concept of nothingness.
The first order of business regarding this starting point was defining it, finding out why it’s universally considered a curriculum’s starting point and asking the most fundamental question about it: “what is true about/in it?”.
The sentence “having nothingness...” doesn’t make
intuitive
sense because “having” implies you have something of existence, but having non-existence as our starting-point and having asked a question about it, knowing that we asked a question about it, is where we’ll continue when we get back to path B – but first we’ll examine path A further: we have thinker, thought and distinction
(we listed two things, not one, and by doing so we’ve listed three things and thus can count three distinct things including distinction itself).
Path
C
Reality, by definition, is “that of which all is part”. A single word/concept of which all is part is the exact opposite of distinctiveness. We concluded that “certainly distinction exists” and we did so in a Reality of which all is part. We are playing around with both opposites: plurality (distinction) and singularity/monotheism (anti-distinction).
That Reality is one, could’ve been one starting point all by itself.
If we would’ve started with Reality – the most all-encompassing – then it would’ve led us to conclude path A (that we think & exist) and it could’ve led us to ask a question about nothingness.
If we would’ve taken “Reality is one” as a starting point, it would’ve opposed the starting point “there is distinction”. Usually our logic tells us that where there is opposition, there is fault in our reasoning – but this is obviously not true for considering the opposition between Reality (anti-distinction) and distinction. Both are legitimate words.
The conclusion from pondering them – the elongation of path A – is that the opposition is a reason for why Reality can’t be, as thinkers & thoughts do, conceived. We never see reality as one – if we did then Descartes’ distinction between observer and object wouldn’t be true anymore.
Reality can’t be seen/represented/observed/thought of fully/what-have-you because of the opposition between the starting points Reality is one and I think & I am (distinction vs. anti-distinction).
It is thus not a statement about the Platonic cave-metaphor where our maps don’t correspond with (i.e. maps are distinct from) the territory; this is a statement about the “access denied” given to all distinct observers (and all observers are by Descartes’ definition distinct) to Reality – it’s a fundamental opposition (between distinction and anti-distinction, us and Reality) which makes Reality not even represented if there were no limits to representation (because the very act of representing is distinctioning).
Regardeless of whether there are brains/computers to represent things (which, factually,
there must be because as brains we define what represents what), but even if representation could be, in a thought experiment, presumed to happen without us or computers - then still that representation couldn’t represent That of which all is part. This is a very subtle point which differentiates my way of not seeing Reality from Plato’s way of not seeing Reality – I put emphasis on the opposition between distinction and anti-distinction, Plato
noted that mental maps are not physical territories. Both ways of not seeing Reality are true and legitimate, but my way means more: it means that regardless of brains ever existing and “representation” being as loosely/vaguely defined by the universe as it can be in the universe, the distinction-anti-distinction-opposition still makes Reality infinitely much more than there can ever be to it. Let’s say that the part there is to it now represents “all of Reality” – then distinction-anti-distinction-opposition holds true and thus we get that there is more to Reality even than whatever was represented, no matter how it was represented.
So even if we say that however much there is to Reality may represent itself (Reality), then still the opposition between thinker & thought’s distinction holds true and causes an opposition with the also true oneness of reality (anti-distinction).
21
st
century science is supposed to be subtle. The conclusion, however, from all of this is that there is more to Reality than any representation (regardless of brains) can represent i.e. Reality is infinite. Exactly in which ways (size and time, energymass & spacetime) Reality is infinite we’ll consider in the continuation of this path A.
Though this seems like a lot of mental effort reading (the reason why it’s new is because it’s hard) but it is all necessary to lead up to an existential theory which includes all possible knowledge about God, and thus this book will have geopolitical impacts on conflicts.
Usually Nobel prizes are awarded for finding something new about some size in the (thank’s to me) proven-to-be infinite Reality – what about being the first one to prove that Reality in fact has infinitely much to it?
Path A (thinker & thought) and path C (Reality is 1 i.e. antidistinction) both lead us to conclude that there´s infinitely much to Reality because of the distinction-antidistinction-opposition.
It´s worthwhile pausing on a sentence like that like it was programming source-code because it contains unseeable concepts (distinction, antidistinction, their opposition) and the infinity of Reality.
If we confine on path B (nothingness) and the fact that we can ask questions about it, let´s ask:
- which laws of nature are inherent in nothingness? Which unavoidable truths are true because of the rational framework of nothingness? Which equations couldn´t
not
be true?
0=0 i.e. nothingness is itself should be true. Zero does not equal five nor does five equal two. We´ve thus found that mathematics is inherent to nothing i.e. in empty space a triangle is not a sphere and all other geometric truths hold true.
E=mc
2
is one of those true equations – Einstein´s most famous equation. All I need to know about this equation are the meaning of the five words:
energy
equals
mass
times
the speed of light
squared
.
“The speed of light squared” is a reference to spacetime because speed is distance (space) over time. This, in the equation mentioned spacetime, is connected to “energy equals mass” through the multiplication sign. “Energy equals mass” warrants the word “energymass”
as a synonym for Existence/the universe/”all movement, shining etc. (verbs) and the things that move, shine (nouns)”.
There are so many different explanation-traditions for E=mc
2
. Usually the practical real-world application-tradition overlaps with the mathematical tradition – theoretical physicists cooperate with experimental physicists. All I know about those explanatory views/intellectual traditions is that space (three dimensions) and time obviously are connected, warranting the word spacetime. But I also know that mass is made into energy in nuclear power plants and energy is made into mass in particle accelerators – these technologies prove that all energy equals mass and vice versa, warranting the word energymass. Energymass feels a lot like spacetime and is found in the same E=mc
2
-equation as spacetime. Energymass can be symbolized as
∞ - infinite existence while spacetime and 0 are synonyms.
Energymass (existence, ∞) and spacetime (zero, nothing) (and equations) is all there is to the universe/Reality. All the fundamental parts – the empty framework with its laws of nature and energymass –are in the same E=mc
2
equation. There´s nothing more to the cosmos than energymass & spacetime together (along with equations) and all of those parts are represented in one equation.
Since E=mc
2
is true in nothingness (like 0=0 is), we´ve reached “mentioning existence (starting point C)” from starting point B (nothing).
E=mc
2
being true at the very core of nothingness (like 0=0 is) tethers energymass (existence) to the very core of the framework. Existence is thus necessary if there is nothing (path B summons path C).
Existence (energymass) and non-existence are the core components of our Reality. They are connected and mutually interdependent as is shown in E=mc
2
. They are the space between and “behind/in” objects and the objects themselves, and all rules governing them – there´s nothing more necessary for a full explanation of energymasspacetime/Reality.
The more detailed description, coming from path A´s infinity of Reality, is that there is infinitely much energymasspacetime: the framework is infinite (spacetime is infinite) and what fills it is infinite (energymass/existence is).
The three paths have merged: path A (I think & I am, distinction) led to path C (there´s more to Reality than can be represented due to distinction-antidistinction-opposition) and path B led to defining Reality as energymasspacetime and making existence tethered to nothingness.
In the above sentence we have the seeds to:
- the chronological explanation with its infinite time-line, our universe acceleratingly emptying (observed fact) and nothingness having (laws of nature like E=mc
2
) existence (∞) tethered to it.
The “why existence?”-question – existence exists tethered to non-existence and only under those circumstances does it make sense for existence to exist.
Defining Reality as energymasspacetime (with the footnote from path A: that it is infinite (size-wise and time-wise)) and since it´s one and unseeable (due to distinction-antidistinction opposition) calling it God or monotheism. If you do not worship the grandest (that of which all is part) then I don´t know what you are worshipping.
We don´t need any other concepts than those we´ve gotten from the universal starting points:
Infinity of Reality (infinitely small, infinitely large and infinitely much time)
Reality defined as energymasspacetime i.e. we exist in nothing and therefore it makes sense for us to exist; infinite nothingness and infinite creation.
The monotheistic nature of Reality: distinction (us)-antidistinction (it) being opposites, making it (Reality) inaccessible for representation (for the thinker & thought-realm) i.e. there´s more to Reality than any representation can validly claim to represent.
An infinite size-range & time-range (infinite spacetime as Reality is energymasspacetime and infinite) of E=mc
2
´s existence-nonexistence-duality (energymasspacetime) and
distinction-antidistinction.
Infinite size-range; infinite time-range.
Of energymasspacetime (a synonym for Reality/God)
Distinction (separate entities; the infinitely many things) and anti-distinction (Reality is one) opposition (meaning it´s unintuitive but true – we didn´t evolve to consider “two simultaneous different ´events´ that co-exist/are the same” to be a valid reasoning).
The above three points stumble through the evolved mind´s obstacle course with its unseeabilities & abstract oppositions and is, taken as a whole, a full account for why we (and anything/Reality) exists.
An existential theory is a theory which explains any existing thing´s existence – the universally accepted existential theory has the 3 sub-ideas just listed. This makes it unintuitive/repulsive to our one-answer-seeking evolved logic, but all three sub-ideas are necessary and can´t be summarized into a smaller compartment than “infinite size & time with infinitely much spacetime (nothing) and infinitely much existence/energymass, and all of it contains distinction-antidistinction-opposition”.
How do we know that not something was left out? Let´s draw a size-time-diagram in which every coordinate is a location of energymasspacetime (a part of Reality) with infinity-symbols symbolizing infinite size and infinite time. Every object has some coordinate on this diagram and thus ever thing gets is explanation from this diagram.
All of this – three distinct starting points to paths which merge, the philosophy arising from and which is based on E=mc
2
, three sub-ideas that can´t be further summarized to the existential theory – all this makes for a very 21
st
century theory which´s unintuitiveness (rebellion against evolved logic´s norms) is the reason for why it wasn´t discovered until now. It will likely resemble a mental mess unless you rehearse it and subdue the pitfalls of evolved logic (like “opposites can´t both be true” or “the invisible is false”) using thorough argument.
All previous existential theories start from a single idea (like “God created…” or “the earth arose from an egg”) while my theory rests on three ideas and the curriculum teaching it has three starting points/paths.
The idea (existential theory), though, is true and is universal. It explains how, when the universe becomes nothing again (as it is observed to be becoming), path B shows that nothingness mentions existence and it would break laws of nature (would be absurd) if existene never came to be in a framework that mentions it in E=mc
2
. This coincides with the merging of paths A & C which state that the time-axis (Reality=energymasspace
time
) is infinite) is infinite. The conclusion being that there has been and will be infinitely many Big Bangs (which I´ll get a Nobel prize for discovering).
intro
Author
yonis
Posted on
03/03/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Text (12 pages)
Science 101
Author
yonis
Posted on
16/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Science 101
The universal text
the universal text
The First Universal Text
Advancing civilzation to end religious conflict
To help & show solidarity toward soldiers...
They´re fighting religious wars where the assumption
of a small minority calling themselves muslims
is that God created earth & gave a violent revalation to prophet Muhammed...
If another theory is proposed to explain why Reality was created & how/why humans came to exist, then the violent revalation & holy war end.
The course which teaches this must be as a universal curriculum designed to maximally convince.
It appeals both of the
motivations of helping soldiers and to learning for learning’s sake (being an intellectual).
It has two starting points:
certain truth (agreement on that we think & we exist)
Nothing (which “doesn’t exist” or exists a-priori (without previous further necessary explanation)).
The fastest way to help soldiers using a universal all-convincing course is like listening to rap music: I’ll connect concepts in a sequence so fast you’ll:
miss alot the first time you isten
listen to it multiple times to catch something new every time
see that I use different ways to present the same set of concept
There are three groups of people:
the intellectuals whom learn for learning’s sake
those who take the moral argument of having solidarity with soldiers (that it’s more moral to drive a car after a bottle of vodka than to not save soldiers’ lives by teaching a course)
those who have to be schooled by an authority.
Have you asked something about:
what God is?
I can tell you everything about God.
First of all: there are two intellectual traditions: the unbound creativity of romanticism & cold rationality. If I were writing in the romantical tradition I would spend effort writing beautiful confusing metaphors and sagas – the opposite of which is like PowerPoint bulletpoints with facts & concepts about God. This is about seeking truth in the rational manner – analysis (thought-through argument) over spontaneous gambling.
I try to create a true argument that can be pumped out of propaganda-loud speakers at ISIS, Boko Haram, Al-Shabaan, Al-Qaida, the taliban etc.
If I can tell enough rationality about their God then their fighting-morality, group-loyalty, mission and cohesion disintegrates.
What I produce is kind of as learning-intensive as the theory of relativity, but if put on loud-speakers on the religious wars’ front-lines is more powerful than any cannon.
My canon that outperforms any cannon is a theory/understanding that can be taught in limitlessly many ways – I might have 5000 concepts and you can talk them in any sequence which gives X many courses that teach my theory/science/world-view.
Instead of teaching the science in a random order, can we derive from logic some starting points for the course (making the curriculum scientific/universal)? Yes – 2 starting points akin to that it is scientific/universal to teach history chronologically.
The two starting points are Nothingness and “I think & I am”.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
The first order of business is defining the starting points along the “Nothingness”-path & the “I think & I am” path.
Everyone spontaneously believes that he/she exists & that he/she thinks thoughts, but a man
figured this out
in the 1600s. He asked: “what in an allmighty demon would be fooling me in everything I can be fooled at/in?” What remains? Allmighty fooler on a mission to fool completely in everything.
He figured out “I exist” because there is a self necessary for a/that self to be fooled.
As a distinct line of reasoning he figured out that “being fooled is [thinking/a thought-process]”, in other words that thought exists as certainly as the self.
That is the starting point on the “I think & I exist”-path.
The starting point on the Nothingness-path is a starting point because no prior reason/justification is possible/necessary. What doesn’t exist need not be explained.
It is said that when the concept 0 was invented the ancients got afraid of it because out [energymass neurons]/brain cannot properly represent something emptier than neurons/brain. Nothingness is emptier than we see it as because we are made of and are using somethingness to represent/see/talk about Nothingness.
The next conclusion – the next step on a logical progression – along the ”I think & I am”-path is that there is distinction. There is distinction between thinker and thought. We listed two conclusions – right? – I think AND I exist. Distinction is the separation between thinker & thought. Distinction exists and is a legitimate word.
The conclusion following along the Nothingness-path is that there are laws of nature i.e. Nothingness is non-absurd. As an example: Nothingness would be absurd i.e. it is not true that a thing is not itself i.e. that 1 is not 1 . It’s not like 1=2 now, but now 1=3, and now 1=254. Laws of nature such as 1=1 are stable over time and do not change. Another law of nature that makes the universe non-absurd is that a triangle is not a sphere (geometric truths). Another law of nature, necessary for a rational cosmos, is E=mc
2
.
The next step along the “think & I am”-path is that the distinction exists in something (or nothing). There is one “that of which all is part”, called anti-distinction, in which distinction exists. Reality is one.
The next step along the “Nothingness - E=mc
2
”-path is that there is a law of nature that states, in order for the universe to be non-absurd, that: “if something, say E=m, is mentioned then it must also [exist/be summoned]”. It would be absurd for Nothingness to state “E=mc
2
” forever without E=m (energymass) ever existing.
Footnote: E=mc
2
– the summoning of energymass – is summoned in the smallest spaces simultaneously resulting in a
dense
Big Bang.
Sub-footnote: I drop Nobel prizes like they were growing on trees: the rationale for how to get from Nothingness to Something and the prediction that the Big Bang should be dense is valuable knowledge.
The next step along the “I think & I am”-path is that observation/representation is distinction. This is a repetition of the step where we said “distinction is a legitimate word i.e. there are
both
thinker AND thought”. We, as observers/representers, are in the distinction-realm – as opposed to the anti-distinction-realm – when we observe/represent/always. This means that we, due to distinction – anti-distinction – opposition, do not see [“that of which all is part”/Reality].
The next step in the Nothingness-path is that there is not just one size. There is a range of sizes – each with energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
) – large to small / small to large. Size & time are connected as spacetime. Everything/anything we know about has a size and a time.
The next step along the I think & I am –path is that, since we do not see Reality (that of which all is part) there is more to Reality than can be [known/distinctly made sense of/hypothesized]. Based on the conclusion that everything has a size & time, there must be more sizes & times than can be hypothesized.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
I switch between the two in a universal way.
I can’t do more universal than tasking the two starts of a universal course and intertwining the logical steps step by step.
I would like to show you two synonymous diagrams. The difference between them is in how time is represented. The difference is the same as between a rolled-out video-tape and a TV.
Imagine ten TV screens stacked in a column. Imagine that the topmost TV shows the largest size, the lowestmost TV shows the smallest size and there is a continuum of TVs/sizes between them.
The other synonymous diagram has size on the vertical axis, time on the horizontal axis and every coordinate represents all of the following:
- a size-time (every object has a size and a time)
- a sub-field of science
- a piece of energymasspacetime.
So far we’ve looked at three different concepts – the self, spacetime and anti-distinction – which, if you see them, look the same.
The self can’t be seen because one is it, spacetime can’t be seen because it’s emptier than neurons can represent it as, and
all of
Reality (anti-distinction) can’t be seen because representation is distinction.
These three concepts are inter-connected, though: the self exists as neurons in spacetime, the self and spacetime exist in Reality.
Reality is defined as all of energymasspacetime
and the self exists as a location within a size-time.
Three unseeable concepts with connections between them.
The phrase “God created earth” is parallelled/rivalled by the phrase “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime and distinction-anti-distinction-opposition”. Both claim to be the explanation to why we exist.
The validity of an existential theory (a theory for why there is existence) is tested by whether it can predict a DNA-strand (and thus the evolution up to humans).
If a theory predicts that there ought to be a DNA-strand (at some coordinate in the infinite
size-time-diagram)
the theory has the scientific predictive quality that a theory needs.
Again, keeping with the universal tradition of this text, just like with the “I think & I am” & “Nothingness” dual paths that I intertwined, the continuation of this book will be written as it is written by others aiming at writing something that can be derived from science (empty space in front of oneself) no matter where in our infinite universe one is located.
The two paths that we meet now are that “the ancients wrote about God/Reality” (how to make
religion make sense in a modern context) and “the existential theory”.
If you want to make the ancients’ concepts God and Soul make sense, God is just a synonym for Reality. I tend to ask religious people:
Is God:
a part within “that of which all is part”/Reality,
a synonym for “that of which all is part”/Reality, or
“beyond”/”outside” Reality (which doesn’t have an outside; anything “outside” is unreal)?
Obviously God has to stay real (there is no spacetime for Him to be located in “outside” energymasspacetime, and I put “outside” in quotes because energymasspacetime has no outside), and God cannot be smaller than (a part of) “that of which all is part”. Allah akbar / God is all-encompassing means there is nothing greater than Him, which is true about the word Reality (energymasspacetime / “that of which all is part”).
We already said that “that of which all is part cannot be observed/represented” (meaning there is more to it than infinitely much hypothesizing/representing) and this is said about God too. We also know that Reality is one (not 2 or 0.75) and this is the meaning of the word monotheism.
The three things we know about God/Reality – that it is one, that one cannot see it and that there’s nothing greater – are too many for the Reality-God-connection (as synonyms) to be coincidence. The ancients had access to the speculation about how we as selves are distinct and therefore Reality (the most all-encompassing), due to it being anti-distinction, is unobservable. God comes as infinite
(1)
size-time-axises of
(2)
energymasspacetime and
(3)
distinction-anti-distinction-opposition, because this three-idea theory predicts the dawn of a DNA-strand.
“That the self can’t be seen because one is it” is an analysis the ancients would’ve had access to too using their civilized survey of what is true about the unavoidable observer in every observation. This makes science warrant and want the word “soul” as a synonym for the “thinker” we looked at in “thinker & thought exist”.
This should’ve answered the question: “which parts of religion make sense in a modern context?”. God and Soul are useful concepts – and we know much more about both thanks to science than the ancients
did. It shouldn’t come as a surprize that the scientific lense’s minimalistic interpretation of religion makes a lot of ritual and dogma unscientific i.e. not universal. I couldn’t possibly add any ritual to this book’s curriculum except that the size-time-diagram is a square so tattoo parlors should see a spike in people wanting that universal diagram tattooed on themselves, along with a triangle (with its tip originating from the center size/center of the square) representing evolution’s increasing complexity/fine-tuning and size of the DNA.
It’s a 3D diagram – the square and the triangle being in two different dimensions.
Notice the square (size-time-diagram) and the triangle (evolution) which together are the existential theory, if you remember that E=mc
2
gave us that it is energymasspacetime and the opposition between distinction and anti-distinction. No matter your location in this infinite space (space of the human size is infinite because the size-range is infinite) you’d arrive at the same picture and text.
Wearing this on t-shirts is as universal of a ritual as we will get.
Let’s break down the existential theory’s (God’s) three ideas:
an infinite size-range (with infinite time because size and time are connected as spacetime). Take your body’s size as an example – it is because of the size larger than itself and the sizes smaller than itself. Sizes are because of one another. If the size-range is infinite then this gives infinitely many reasons for any size existing, in other words “the first cause” it retreating infinitely far into the small and large. This explains why a size-range such as our known range exists at all. This is pillar one of the three-pillar existential theory.
of energymasspacetime. Spacetime is emptier than our neurons can represent it as and human endevours are for evolutionary reasons meant to deal with energymass (existence). E=mc
2
is the equation where energymass is mentioned in the E=m-part and the speed of light squared (speed is space (distance) over time) mentions spacetime – in the same equation; they’re connected. This is a pillar of the existential theory because it explains why there can be something (at every size): it is intertwined (and exists in) Nothingness. In Nothing, Something.
distinction-anti-distinction-opposition i.e. the opposition between distinction (like separate observers) and anti-distinction (defined as “that one of which all is part”). We started this book
with two paths: “I think & I am” (and distinction between them) and Nothingness (which is intertwined with Somethingness/energymass). Both are correct conclusions eventhough we need “both-and -thinking” to deal with the facts that Reality is both one and has distinction in it.
This three-pillared/three-idea existential theory rivals “God created the universe” and predicts that the Big Bang ought to begin as dense (because E=mc
2
is true in the smallest spaces) and end in dark energy/accelarating cosmis expansion i.e. that the universe becomes emptier until a region of Nothingness appears again – the universe hates a vacuum and since E=mc
2
is true in that vacuum, the vacuum cannot remain empty. This three-pillared theory predicts the dense beginning of the universe and the empty end of the universe – both the dense beginning and emptying future can be observed with telescopes. The theory also predicts, since it has an infinite size-range, that there should be a DNA-strand and thus evolution.
God thus can only remain as three possibilities:
God is a synonym for Reality (and thanks to this book, we know the three-pillared theory which goes into detail about God); God is “that of which all is part”, energymasspacetime.
God is an unnecessary assumption – the word God can be dropped out of our vocabularies because the theory works fine stand-alone. We don’t need a synonym for Reality since we do have the word Reality already, so we deny God because it comes with so much superstitious baggage.
God is added - just like Santa Claus, elfs, fairies and unicorns can be added – to the theory eventhough it doesn’t make sense to add it. There is no spacetime “outside” energymasspacetime and hence to place for a God to be; God cannot be separate/distinct from Reality without being unreal.
This book, by being universally written:
proves that space is infinite (because there is infinitely large) and thus other planets with human life should write the exact same book,
presents a universal idea in a near-universal way (distinction between the curriculum and the science itself),
advanced civilization / is the pinnacle of human civilization when it comes to the big questions like God, Soul and the existential theory,
can cause skisms within religious war-groups i.e. end war for religious reasons,
is a propaganda-weapon to be put on loud-speakers on the current wars’ front-lines.
I thought it fitting, to keep the curriculum universal, to add “what this book can do for humanity” right after the chapter about the existential theory. The next chapter will deal with evolution (beginning from a DNA-strand).
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen, Sweden
Author
yonis
Posted on
12/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on The universal text
Aspergers meditation
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/asperger-meditation.mp3
Aspergers = detaljfokus (fokus på detaljer).
Bästa kognitiva terapin något som vidgar fokuset.
Om man kan få medvetandet i ett tillstånd som gör överblicken & periferiseendet bättre…
Meditation är att lägga aspergerfokus på något som tar bort FOKUS
rumtid tömmer medvetandet
jaget, vars jakt man ger upp då man inte kan lägga sig själv utanför sig själv.
“Det som allt är del av (anti-distinktion)”
Svårt att hålla fokus på dem av evolutionära skäl.
Man blir bättre (mer van vid att låta fokus återvända till dem) ju mer man tränar.
Testa fokusera på dem i sociala sammanhang.
Author
yonis
Posted on
11/02/2017
14/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Aspergers meditation
If you eradicate religion from the face of the earth then theres not as much to build little militant enclaves around. Group-bonding will be based on friendships, companies and governments – not religious affiliations. Eradicating religion breaks down something evil at the core of human beings.
If religion is eradicated then there is no pretext such as jihad for mere power/resource-grabbing, revenge, hybris etc. The true purpose of future wars will be clearer, blatant and more awkward if religion is out of the way.
Then we have those few terrorist nutcases who actually believe in (violent) religion and they need to be reached by my teaching.
Author
yonis
Posted on
04/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
Solidarity with soldiers
Author
yonis
Posted on
03/02/2017
03/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Solidarity with soldiers
Solidarity with soldiers
Author
yonis
Posted on
02/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Solidarity with soldiers
Universal course has 3 beginnings leading up to DNA
Author
yonis
Posted on
01/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Universal course has 3 beginnings leading up to DNA
Religious war
Author
yonis
Posted on
01/02/2017
01/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Religious war
Interse 25 01 2017 (15 mins)
Everyone agrees they they themselves exist, because if one would get fooled in everyone one can be fooled in then one would exist there anyway and be fooled. So one knows that one exists. Then one also knows that one thinks because “to get fooled” is a thought-process. Thus we have two things: I think and I exist. And the distinction between them: and on the flipside of the paper we have the opposite of that: anti-distinction, and this can also be called “that of which all is part”/Reality. And since we are in the distinction-side of the paper when we see something; when we see something there is distinction between us and that thing. Thus we cannot represent or see that which is on the other side of the paper i.e. that of which all is part / Reality. Nothing can represent – because it is distinct – Reality. So whatever which is distinct cannot… whatever that is observed or represented is distinct and therefore is not… therefore does not represent Reality / “that of which all is part”. So we have distinction and anti-distinction as opposing poles.
This leads to that there is more to Reality than we can represent; or that anything can represent – be it a computer or a coffee-cup or whatever. And if there is more to Reality and what we know about Reality is that it comes as a size-time-diagram…; that there are sizes and times. One can draw it as a diagram with size on one axis and time on the other, then there is more to that diagram than we can represent. In other words the sizerange is infinite and the size-axis is infinite. We can think about a bigger size than  the largest we know and then we are representing it – we have a hypothesis about it. And even in that case it is true that we are on the distinction-side of the paper, we are representing (which includes distinction) and therefore there is even more than we can even hypothesize about (regarding Reality).
In an infinite sizerange of infinitely much time there ought to be a little DNA-strand which reproduces itself; i.e. if the sizerange is infinite from quantum physics to cosmology and infinitely much past the largest and the smallest then there is a DNA-strand somewhere in that infinity. Thus we have reached DNA from certain truth: from that we think and we exist, to distinction, to anti-distinction, to that there is more to Reality than we can observe/represent and therefore there is more to the size-axis than we can hypothesize, and therefore there is a DNA-strand.
The second way of coming to the DNA-strand from a good beginning is that we start with nothing. In nothing – empty space… which is emptier than our neurons think of it as. We are made of energymass, we are made of something so we have a hard time representing nothing; nothing is emptier than we represent it as. In this nothing there are laws of nature such as 1 is 1; it is not absurd: it is not so that right now 1=1, but now 1 is 2, and now 1 is 155, but instead one always equals one. Such laws of nature are built-in into nothing. The law of nature that a triangle is not a sphere. Another law of nature is E=mc
2
– that energymass is found in the same equation as spacetime is found in – and spacetime is again that nothingness (and it is joined together with energymass in E=mc
2
). So we get something from nothing, that is to say something and nothing are intertwined and it is the laws of nature between them which makes it so that one can logically say that “in nothing exists E=mc
2
, E=mc
2
mentions energymass/existence, and therefore existence much exist because nothing cannot mention existence without existence existing. This existence then comes as an infinite sizerange and then we arrive at the DNA-strand again: that it ought to exist as existence in an infinite sizerange.
We have started with nothing, went to the laws of nature, to E=mc
2
which mentions energymass and thus energymass has to exist because if it is mentioned then it must also exist (otherwise it’d be absurd). And thus we reach the DNA-strand from nothing.
The third way of beginning this course with is that we have three pillars to the existential theory: we have an infinite sizerange, of energymasspacetime (something & nothing),  and we have this left-and-right-side-of-the-paper (distinction & anti-distinction). In an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime and distinction- anti-distinction –opposition.
All of these three roads, that is to say: I think and I exist; nothing and the 3 pillars to the existential theory leads to the three pillars of the existential theory (that there is an infinite sizerange and therefore a DNA-strand). And when there is a DNA-strand / when there is reproduction with the DNA-strand, then there is 1) survival and death (the ones who survive survive and go forward in evolution), and the 2)nd principle that the number of offspring has significance (that there is a difference between 0 or 1 or 5 or 10 offspring in evolution), and the 3)rd principle is that there is mutation in each generation-shift (that parents are different from their young, that the DNA-strand mutates over time).
When we get to dinosaurs we’ll get to how cortex (the flexible part of the brain) started in birds in order to adapt the brain to the body, so that if the bird was born with a too short wing then the brain could sense that “my body is like this” “so I should fly in another way than if my wings were of equal length”. It adapts the brain to the body and learns to fly normally even if it is hurted or something similar. So we have a flexible part of the brain which starts thus.
Then, after a while, evolves a function where we have two brain-halves: one visual and one linguistic with serotonine (which activates various thoughts, and if a sequence of though leads to some evolutionary benefit (that is: if one’s plan is completeable and leads to happiness) then it is marked with dopamine (as important) and then one continues: serotonine – planning different ways from it and if a way works it is marked with dopamine). This function of having two brain-halves with serotonine and dopamine evolved as a function to let us for example plan our way upward in the hierarchy and therefore get the largest number of offspring. It was a function which was evolutionarily useful.
The 2
nd
function in the brain is classed into three categories: the homeostatic (the internal (hunger and thirst etc), they have to do with the body internally and are a medium-sized category, a medium-sized number of these that are in the body), then there are very many that have to do with our senses (if we see a snake, if we see a squirrel, if we see this or that… and how we react to hearing noises from the bushes (we get anxiety because it’s a tiger)) – there are alot of these social/external which we are made aware of through our senses (so it’s a larger category than the homeostatic one). And a third last tiny category is that which we do when we don’t have any homeostatic or social/external which is interesting, and that is that which we do when we are idle. And that is to plan how to get friends, how to get power, how one gets resources (money), one advances one’s world-view (curiosity), plans reproduction – and those are the approximately 5 things we tend to do when we don’t have anything ongoing. So a little category of those things we do when we are idle.
There is the utilitarian principle that “people seek happiness”, we want to create happiness: and evolution has made us so that we maximize these reproductive benefits (like survival, reproduction and power-seeking and security and expanding one’s world-view). We always maximize them so maybe we don’t have the happiest emotions that the universe allows to have in one’s brain, but instead we have the most maximizing emotions. We have an emotional repertoire which maximizes our chances in evolution. But when we learn more about DNA and how DNA creates the brain, one can create a brain in a jar which has the maximum-happiness-emotions instead of evolutionarily maximizing (greed and such). So I think that the future – since we have this utilitarian principle that we want to maximize happiness – we will create a brain using DNA-engineering which is maximally happy – it needs no body to be that but it can be a brain in a jar which is maximally happy. I think we will create those and they will remain for millions of years, but humanity seems to pollute its planet and finish its oil so in 100 years maybe it starts to go downward for us humans. We finish the planet – the oil doesn’t come back and the pollution remains, so every planet’s (in the infinite universe) history culminates in having a short period of oil (a few hundred years) and then we have these brains which are super-happy in their jars for millions of years. It’s a little bit South Park / Futurama over the whole thing – it’s cartoonish that we create a farm with brains in jars which are the happiest that there is and we humans finish the oil and do ordinary human things. That is the future.
But I thought that this course, in itself, this order in which I’ve presented the ideas; that that setup is universal (they teach the same course on other planets). They begin with the three different beginnings to the course (I think & I exist, distinction & anti-distinction, that it leads to that there is more to Reality than we can know – more sizes – and therefore there ought to be a DNA-strand), or that there is nothing (laws of nature, the laws of nature mention energymass and thus energymass has to exist) and then it leads to a DNA-strand, or that we have 3 pillars (an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime and distinction-anti-distinction-opposition) and that leads to these three pillars which leads to these three principles in the evolurionary theory (that those who survive survive, the number of offspring matters and there is mutation in each generation-shift); then comes cortex which begins by adapting the brain to the animal, and then that it is used to climb up in the hierarchy (for example) – how one gets friends, how one makes different plans… – and therefore comes this left-right-brainhalf with serotonine and dopamine (that function) comes into the game and the one who has the largest brain plans his or her way to the top over millions of years (and this is why the brain grew): because we planned, we are planning animals. And then it ends with that we DNA-engineer brains which are super-happy in their jars, and finish the oil and pollute the planet. And this ought to be how every planets’ history goes and the course itself is taught and exists on other planets too so they teach exactly the same curriculum (so there are infinitely many planets with the same text that we just made).
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/ZOOM0001_01.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
25/01/2017
25/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Interse 25 01 2017 (15 mins)
Posts navigation
Page
1
Page
2
Page
3
Next page
Search for:
Search
Recent Posts
Text (12 pages)
Science 101
The universal text
Aspergers meditation
694
Recent Comments
Archives
March 2017
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
January 2016
Categories
Dagbok
Old
The book + diagrams
Trashcan
Trey
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.org
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Proudly powered by WordPress

Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen – Teach what you study here to end religious wars
Skip to content
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Teach what you study here to end religious wars
Text (12 pages)
I can tell you everything about God.
This book won’t be a commentary on any holy book though; it won’t be in the tradition of interpretation of dogmas, sagas and mysteries. It won’t be a mystic’s spiritual book which disengages the rational analytical mind. Instead I’ll tell you everything about God in the tradition that Einstein and philosophers belonged to. It will be an algebra-like linguistic relationship-between-symbols (with just two visuals) analysis of what’s true.
I can tell you everything about God in the rational tradition – but before you think this will be an atheistic refutation of God, I might aswell reveal beforehand that God & Soul are legitimate concepts and we’ll discover their rational roots tens of thousands of years ago in this book. There is a natural narrative i.e. logical cohesion from step to step in the anatomy/history of the brain that leads up to the invention of God & Soul. The mind-processes/conscious abilities which result in God & Soul being realized and thus the ideas getting an impact on the world are utilized by simple means – it is relatively easy to just stumble upon God as an idea. This is why God & Soul date back to caveman days – they’re one of the earliest artifacts of civilization: like the spear.
To tell you everything about God I should do semantics i.e. define what I mean by the word God. I won’t mention dogmas other than The Golden Rule (do onto others like you’d want them to do onto you) not rituals other than showing universal scientific symbols (like the figures in this book) – what I’ll tell you about God will be rational/abstract/theoretical and not some pretext for following one culture’s dogmas/rituals over the other 10 000 religions’ dogmas/rituals.
I’ll show you how to for yourself figure out what God is, instead of turn you to any particular raising-paradigm/holy book.
There are three groups of people:
The intellectuals who are life-long learners learning for learning’s sake; the readers who are curious for the joy of answers and read for reading’s sake.
Those who see some reason to read/learn. I’ll tell you that the reason for making the arguments in this book popular is because almost every single war/conflict in today’s world is God-related.
Knowing this book shows solidarity toward soldiers (if it’s a religious war) – teaching the idea that this book teaches can save soldiers’ lives. There is the moral argument that “it is more moral to drink & drive than to not save soldiers’ lives by helping make a book/idea popular”. If made popular, this book can make ISIS desintegrate and plunge into a civil war because nothing no longer binds them together in large a group (like “the kaliphate/the Quran/their god does).
Those who are not intellectuals/readers nor do they show solidarity toward everyone negatively impacted by misinterpretations of religions.
The name of this book hints at that I’ll try to write as closely as possible to what all revalations claimed to be: universal i.e. applicable to everyone. I’ll try to make the sequence of logic i.e. arguments i.e. what’s akin to an equation as universal as possible, meaning it can be figured out / derived no matter who or where one is. The implications of this is that this semi-revalation sequence-of-argument/logic is derived from the same Source identically on every human-like-life bearing planet in this infinite universe. This is why I call this text “The First Universal Text” preassuming the footnote that this text marks the beginning of a new intellectual tradition which is defined by its mission: to write universally. The idea in this book can be told in many less universal ways (which are maybe 0.001% of how the idea is “usually” (in the infinite universe) taught), but I’ll try to aim for the 99% usuality of how the idea is usually taught i.e. how the curriculum meta to the idea is designed. How do you design the curriculum – when a million different curriculums are possible and result in the readers learning the same idea – to be as universal as possible?
Instead of teaching the idea/science in a random order, can we derive from logic some starting points for the course (making the curriculum universal)? Yes: two starting points stand out akin to that it is logical to teach history chronologically; the two starting points for understanding God/creation/the universe are Nothingness & “I think & I am”.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
The first order of business is defining the starting points along the “Nothingness”-path & the “I think & I am” path.
Everyone spontaneously believes that he/she exists & that he/she thinks thoughts, but a man
figured this out
in the 1600s. He asked: “what in an allmighty demon would be fooling me in everything I can be fooled at/in?” What remains? Allmighty fooler on a mission to fool completely in everything.
He figured out “I exist” because there is a self necessary for a/that self to be fooled.
As a distinct line of reasoning he figured out that “being fooled is [thinking/a thought-process]”, in other words that thought exists as certainly as the self.
That is the starting point on the “I think & I exist”-path.
The man who figured this out in the 1600s, Descartes, didn’t do it to make a joke abour proving scientifically the most obvious, but he knew he had discovered a globally understandable starting point with much significance for religious conflicts. Descartes was invited to live at the queen of Sweden’s castle because of his creative rational thinking. He also invented the coordinate system ( x & y axis) to contribute to mathematics’ intellectual tradition. In this book we’ll reach Descartes’ coordinate-system invention (with size on the y-axis and time on the x-axis as the size-time diagram into which every object fits in as a coordinate) from Descartes’ “I think & BI am”-invention; the two are connected in logic but were not historically connected/associated together until I did it (400 years after Descartes invented both things).
How can you verify that what I said right now is true? I stated a historical claim about the non-associatedness of two ideas (invented by one and the same thinker). Unless you’re a history-of-science intellectual-tradition-historian you’d have a hard time verifying my claim of me deserving a prize for adding the logic that connects “I think & I am” to mathematics’ coordinate system (and the size-time diagram more specifically). Luckily the best university professors in sciences’ intellectual history are available on the internet (The Great Courses.com) and they go specifically into this topic in the “Philosophy of Mind” and “History of Science” courses – and since the best professors mention Descartes’ two ideas in one breath but
not the connection between them in a 40-lecture course, you know that not even the best current minds know the connection i.e. I’ve invented something new (which is the logic that binds the two ideas together). It is fascinating, though, that one man (Descartes) invented two ideas that would be connected into a single logical sequence in which both ideas are necessary 400 years after his death.
Descartes’ certain truth (I think & I am) is in scientific circles referred to as “cogito ergo sum”, which is latin for:
- cognition (thinking)
- ergo = therefore
- sum = existence / I am.
I prefer to call it “I think & I am” though because it (especially the &-symbol) points out that they/there are two distinct conclusions – the logical pathways for deriving them are slightly different from one another.
Remember this as the word “distinction” because we’ll continue from that word when we return to this topic.
Chapter 2
I think & I am being derived as two distinct/separate statements through two distinct logical paths is quite abstract since some of the reasoning contains no pictures – the visual brainhalf is at some moments during the reasoning disengaged, making those parts of reasoning abstract. We’ll encounter much more abstract reasoning-pathways in this book, which is why it’s important to, in the beginning of the book, do reasoning about why some abstract reasonings are so hard to grasp that it took until the 21
st
century (me) to discover them.
As evolved animals we are made to maximize our re-arrangement of the natural, physical world for evolutionary benefits. We are not made to re-arrange the (non-existent; for superstitious people only) spiritual world. Nor are we made to deal with invisible mental objects – and we’ll deal with three of them – like glass windows. As long as we’ve had possessions we’ve had the ability to recognize if some possession was missing – we’ve had the cognitive system for spontaneously counting/seeing zero long before written symbols for numbers were invented. Written symbols for positive numbers were invented before the concept zero was invented. Zero, however, is one of those words which’s understanding shouldn’t conjure up any visuals. There can be plenty of linguistic explanation of features associated to the concept zero and one of them is that zer is non-visual (shouldn’t conjure up imaginations) meaning that the visuals we use for representing zero (such as the symbol 0) are just fingers pointing to a deeper tunderlying truth (which is invisible) – don’t look at the pointer/finger; but why does the brain have a hard time doing this? The simple answer is that we evolved to re-arrange the visible – we had no evolutionary benefits from the invisible.
It gets quite abstract, unintuitive and for said evolutionary reasons “unusual” (and civilized) when we’ll, later in this book, account for the explanation-based connections between three invisible (purely linguistic) ideas/concepts.
The reason why the message of this book is unintuitive (didn’t use to be an evolutionary benefit) and was discovered first in the 21
st
century has its explanation in the evolution & anatomy of the brain. Evolution and anatomy go hand in hand like history shapes architecture and intrastructure shapes history.
It’s worthwhile looking at which evolution+anatomy-explanation, other wthan “we evolved to deal with the visible world and thus feel awkward about the invisible”, explains our repulsion toward the abstract/invisible eventhough our logic proves that it is true – the idea of this book is much like algebra and we should now look at why, evolution-anatomically, require a while to get as comfortable as one can get to the invisible ideas of this book.
We have two major modalities for remembering/understanding/explaining things: the visual (sensory) and the linguistic (abstract). They cooperate to let the animal adapt to its environment (by, for example, making plans based on future predictions (which themselves are based on abstract and sensory memories)). Some things that the visual brainhalf can do the abstract can’t do and vice versa. Whichever brainhalf most efficiently and strongly accomplishes a task is utilized to make the animal competative in the chase for evolutionary benefits.
This cooperation and communication between the two differentrly specialized brainhalves is a function/mutation which arose because it gave evolutionary benefits. The genes that gave rise to this brainhalves-cooperating-function – which is based on either brainhalf specializing in either the visible or the invisible/abstract field of cognition – built on the earlier mutation/evolutionary benefit/trait of having a flexible (during the lifetime changing) part of the brain known as cortex.
The cortex first arose to “adapt the brain to the body” meaning that if the body mutated/got a birth defect/got injured/muscles got tired or weak, then still the animal could function to maximize evolutionary benefits despite its new bodily circumstances.
The brain adapting to the body, in case let’s say an injury to the body, gave the organism a Super Mario-like extra life/extra chance – for example a bird with a 50% weaker left wing than right wing could, because of the flexible cortex, know/learn/acknowledge its disposition and adapt tits behavior/muscular movements to counteract the disadvantages that would’ve came about if the animal didn’t have a cortex. For example a bird meant to fly straight (seeing a butterfly in front of it) with a 50% weaker left wing would’ve sent the same muscular-activation-signal to both wings, but due to the weakness of the left wing the bird would’ve
been flying counter-clockwise circles/faulty steering. With a small part of the bird’s brain that’s flexible i.e. able to learn, the saying “a cat has nine lives”
became more real. This is a major benefit from the rather small mutation of having a flexible middle-man in the feedback loop from and to the muscle. Parrots obviously have a flexible part of the brain since they can learn to mimic sounds, dating back the first cortex to sometime around when birds had become complex enough to mutate just a few cortical neurons in the right place. The virtue of the very nature/anatomy of cortical neurons is that even a couple of neurons can be wired so that they 1) sense 100% activation of both wings intended by the brain, 2) sense feedback from the wings telling that the left wing only flexed with 50% of its strength, and 3) either inhibit the right wing’s activation by 50% or increase the muscular excitement to the left wing so that it reaches 150% - in either case the feedback loop with the flexible middleman makes both wings flap equally (if the bird wants to fly straight) even if one wing is injured/mutated/weak.
That is the origin/dawn/beginning of the cortex and dates it back to about 100 million years ago.
Building, through mutation, on that earliest cortex simpy enlargening the cortex would’ve allowed the cortical cells to exhibit new benefitial traits. Remembering that adapting (the brain) not only to one’s body but to the external environment too is, like cats do, building a simple mental map of the objects in one’s environment and learning from experience what can and can’t be done with them.
It’s quite straight-forward that a larger cortex – tin the animals whom need cognitive adaptiation to the environment to reap maximum evolutionary benefits – is better.
Along the story of humanity we formed hierarchical groups (king, aristocrats and slaves) and at about the same time possessions (and thus the first encounter with an abstract invisible: “my thing is missing!”) became a part of the human story.
Speaking of possessions – specifically the ownership of intellectual property – the courses I’ve seen on anthropology, archeology and Big History all fail to mention that the capitalist drive of the biggest cortexed proto-human smarting his or her way to the top of (or upward in the) hierarchy led to
evolutionary pressures growing the cortex. The cortex with the most mass compared to its rival cortexes had 1) faster planning, 2) more memory and 3) more detailed social (personality) and environmental maps. Power-hungriness – the ambition to climb upward in the hierarchy – let to the cortex growing generation after generation.
Among many reasons, other than that the king orders his protectors/servants, is that females are attracted to the king because he commands the most resouces (especiallyu food-supply (which is necessary for maximizing any female’s number of offspring)). The most modern/civilized analogy/equivalent to a large food-supply is possession of ownership of intellectual property – in this case the fact that one of the world’s best archelogists/proto-human experts said that it is an explicit eunexplained mystery/question of science why the brain/cortex grew so very much during the latest era of burst-like brain-growth (the past 100 000 years). I like I said, claim that it was hierarchical upward mobility (and the king having the most babies) due to faster-, more accurate-, based on more memorized foundation- and predicting further into the future-planning (cortical abilities which correlated to the size of the cortex and which are more likely to elevate one, instead of lower one’s status, in the hierarchy). My claim that hierarchies made the cortex grow is intellectual property of my ownership.
The reasons for growth of the cortex illuminate what hkinds of thinking the brain dealt with and is made to deal with. There’s even negative incentives to think about the invisible (like zero): we base our reasoning off of and on our planning ability. In our plans we use the mediating concept “then” alot, just like we do in algebra (1+1=2 is much like 1+1 then 2) & argument. In arguments you set up premises that lead to (“then”) conclusions which in turn (“then”) become premises.
In evolution (and thus in the anatomy of our brains) sometimes plans had or resulted in a “???”-step; if some premise/step/conclusion in a plan was empty, this was our “symbol” (null) for considering the plan impossible, unfinished or not worthwhile committing as action.
Since reasoning about universal curriculum starting points like “I think & I am” and all the arguments between the start and fully explaining God/creation/the universe as 21
st
century science involves legitimate but invisible arguments (like zero), this book can feel like a plan in which one step was null/empty – and thus, despite verbal logic’s disagreement, the theory of brain-evolution predicts that the logic will feel like a plan gone wrong (or which is unfinished/faulty). The impossibility of making the steps of argument/logic in this book visual – and explicitly claiming that we’ll deal with three distinct but invisible (and thus looking the same & making the “plan” (upon which reasoning is based) feel faulty). What speaks against the feeling of “fault in the plan/reasoning”, though, are that:
the logic, eventhough triggering the feeling of “this is faulty/unfinished” by speaking of any of the invisible concepts, makes sense by being thorough logic, like solving equations, beginning from the premise/conclusion of Descartes’ certain truth.
It is possible to know the message of this book (including the three interconnected invisible ideas) without knowing or having chosen a specific curriculum for teaching the idaeas. The fact that many people can formulate the same ideas and logic between novel associations in practically infinitely many ways, and still be agreed upon and comprehendable by peers shows the disconnect between the (more or less universal) curriculum and the (unchanging) underlying
idea. The idea is the scientific world-view and there are unlimited ways to communicate/teach it. This scientific world-view is a new version, including
a full explanation of God, of something that has been developing as a continuation of the history of (the curious, map-making) cortex.
Because argument/reasoning/logic is based on and is planted in planning (re-arraning real-world objects), truth/validity is based on the visualizable (“if you see it (happening in the future or further on in logic) you’ll believe it”) and we’ll be listing the facts about three unseeable objects, and world-views/diagrams which explain the universe/a coordinate-system-based existential theory is based on cognitive maps of the geographical and social environment, we’re using old cognitive abilities basically used for surviving on the savannah to do abstract 21
st
century science. This is why 21
st
century science feels awkward/unintuitive/faulty etc eventhough the logic can be put on paper like the solution of an equation, each step be verified, no faults found and thus one can feel the uniquely modern discongruity/mismatch between what one can 100% certainly know to be true, and the emotion which comes from the mismatch between, for example, an abstract diagram-based map of Reality and the cognitive million year old simple map-making-ability in which the 21
st
century abstract “map”/diagram is rooted. We’re using old abilities/mechanisms to do new things, overcoming rules like “if you can’t see one step (but “only” know it linguistically) the plan/reasoning is lacking” – we can use the number zero but thinking about its meaning in “101” (no tens) gives an awkward feeling of “something went wrong” (eventhough civilizing/reasoning/understaning/logic can subdue the awkward “something-went-wrong-because-I-can’t-see-it”-feeling. Likewise I will state “you can’t see X because...” at least three times in this book, explicitly claiming that that logic at that point will feel unintuitive (eventhough it can be put on paper and make sense) unless the feeling is subdued by civilizing. The evolved traits like “can’t see it = it doesn’t make sense yet = give it up” are why no-one discovered the message of this book until the 21
st
century. Our frontier-pushing reasoning is like a plant planted in a foundation (evolved cognitive traits like “can’t see it = don’t believe it”) which is not very fertile for plants; if we are a plant, our roots have hit some poisons in the dirt. For 21
st
century reasoning, our brain as in obstacle course. We have some genetically-based cognitive hinderances for our universal reasoning.
Chapter 3
If we call the path that begins with “I think & I am” “path A”, since we have two equally legitimate starting points to the curriculum that explains God, we can call the other path/starting point “path B”.
Definitions: all the following are synonyms: Nothing, spacetime, 0, zero, emptiness,
non-existence,
the void...
It’s legitimate to ask “what preceded [nothing]?” because we are in a non-empty universe which is becoming emptier by the moment (this is a well-known fact among cosmologists & the accelerating expansion/emptying is called “dark energy”). It is not legitimate, however, to ask the other “why?”-question about Nothingness: even though Nothingness has a chronological cause (because our universe will become nothing again), it doesn’t have a cause-and-effect relationship other than the chronological one, making the question: “why was there nothingness (and don’t give the chronological answer!)?” illegitimate. Nothingness is a starting point in reasoning
- it warrants no prior justification; as Kant
would’ve said: it is the precondition in which everything happens: it is “a-priori” meaning none were prior to it in a meaningful cause-and-effect relationship because nothingness doesn’t exist.
What doesn’t exist denies the question: “why does it exist?” – it doesn’t! This makes Nothingness a valid starting point, path B, in a universal curriculum.
Nothingness and “I think & I am” are equally good starting points.
Asking “what is true about nothing?” or ”what is true in nothing?” is the starting point along path B of this universal curriculum.
One thing I usually say about nothingness is that it is emptier than we can imagine it as. Whatever your mind can produce, it’s still the mind producing it – we can’t escape the mind’s perspective i.e. its biological nature of everything it does (even when saying “nothing”) being neurons. Real nothingness is emptier than even our concept of nothingness.
The first order of business regarding this starting point was defining it, finding out why it’s universally considered a curriculum’s starting point and asking the most fundamental question about it: “what is true about/in it?”.
The sentence “having nothingness...” doesn’t make
intuitive
sense because “having” implies you have something of existence, but having non-existence as our starting-point and having asked a question about it, knowing that we asked a question about it, is where we’ll continue when we get back to path B – but first we’ll examine path A further: we have thinker, thought and distinction
(we listed two things, not one, and by doing so we’ve listed three things and thus can count three distinct things including distinction itself).
Path
C
Reality, by definition, is “that of which all is part”. A single word/concept of which all is part is the exact opposite of distinctiveness. We concluded that “certainly distinction exists” and we did so in a Reality of which all is part. We are playing around with both opposites: plurality (distinction) and singularity/monotheism (anti-distinction).
That Reality is one, could’ve been one starting point all by itself.
If we would’ve started with Reality – the most all-encompassing – then it would’ve led us to conclude path A (that we think & exist) and it could’ve led us to ask a question about nothingness.
If we would’ve taken “Reality is one” as a starting point, it would’ve opposed the starting point “there is distinction”. Usually our logic tells us that where there is opposition, there is fault in our reasoning – but this is obviously not true for considering the opposition between Reality (anti-distinction) and distinction. Both are legitimate words.
The conclusion from pondering them – the elongation of path A – is that the opposition is a reason for why Reality can’t be, as thinkers & thoughts do, conceived. We never see reality as one – if we did then Descartes’ distinction between observer and object wouldn’t be true anymore.
Reality can’t be seen/represented/observed/thought of fully/what-have-you because of the opposition between the starting points Reality is one and I think & I am (distinction vs. anti-distinction).
It is thus not a statement about the Platonic cave-metaphor where our maps don’t correspond with (i.e. maps are distinct from) the territory; this is a statement about the “access denied” given to all distinct observers (and all observers are by Descartes’ definition distinct) to Reality – it’s a fundamental opposition (between distinction and anti-distinction, us and Reality) which makes Reality not even represented if there were no limits to representation (because the very act of representing is distinctioning).
Regardeless of whether there are brains/computers to represent things (which, factually,
there must be because as brains we define what represents what), but even if representation could be, in a thought experiment, presumed to happen without us or computers - then still that representation couldn’t represent That of which all is part. This is a very subtle point which differentiates my way of not seeing Reality from Plato’s way of not seeing Reality – I put emphasis on the opposition between distinction and anti-distinction, Plato
noted that mental maps are not physical territories. Both ways of not seeing Reality are true and legitimate, but my way means more: it means that regardless of brains ever existing and “representation” being as loosely/vaguely defined by the universe as it can be in the universe, the distinction-anti-distinction-opposition still makes Reality infinitely much more than there can ever be to it. Let’s say that the part there is to it now represents “all of Reality” – then distinction-anti-distinction-opposition holds true and thus we get that there is more to Reality even than whatever was represented, no matter how it was represented.
So even if we say that however much there is to Reality may represent itself (Reality), then still the opposition between thinker & thought’s distinction holds true and causes an opposition with the also true oneness of reality (anti-distinction).
21
st
century science is supposed to be subtle. The conclusion, however, from all of this is that there is more to Reality than any representation (regardless of brains) can represent i.e. Reality is infinite. Exactly in which ways (size and time, energymass & spacetime) Reality is infinite we’ll consider in the continuation of this path A.
Though this seems like a lot of mental effort reading (the reason why it’s new is because it’s hard) but it is all necessary to lead up to an existential theory which includes all possible knowledge about God, and thus this book will have geopolitical impacts on conflicts.
Usually Nobel prizes are awarded for finding something new about some size in the (thank’s to me) proven-to-be infinite Reality – what about being the first one to prove that Reality in fact has infinitely much to it?
Path A (thinker & thought) and path C (Reality is 1 i.e. antidistinction) both lead us to conclude that there´s infinitely much to Reality because of the distinction-antidistinction-opposition.
It´s worthwhile pausing on a sentence like that like it was programming source-code because it contains unseeable concepts (distinction, antidistinction, their opposition) and the infinity of Reality.
If we confine on path B (nothingness) and the fact that we can ask questions about it, let´s ask:
- which laws of nature are inherent in nothingness? Which unavoidable truths are true because of the rational framework of nothingness? Which equations couldn´t
not
be true?
0=0 i.e. nothingness is itself should be true. Zero does not equal five nor does five equal two. We´ve thus found that mathematics is inherent to nothing i.e. in empty space a triangle is not a sphere and all other geometric truths hold true.
E=mc
2
is one of those true equations – Einstein´s most famous equation. All I need to know about this equation are the meaning of the five words:
energy
equals
mass
times
the speed of light
squared
.
“The speed of light squared” is a reference to spacetime because speed is distance (space) over time. This, in the equation mentioned spacetime, is connected to “energy equals mass” through the multiplication sign. “Energy equals mass” warrants the word “energymass”
as a synonym for Existence/the universe/”all movement, shining etc. (verbs) and the things that move, shine (nouns)”.
There are so many different explanation-traditions for E=mc
2
. Usually the practical real-world application-tradition overlaps with the mathematical tradition – theoretical physicists cooperate with experimental physicists. All I know about those explanatory views/intellectual traditions is that space (three dimensions) and time obviously are connected, warranting the word spacetime. But I also know that mass is made into energy in nuclear power plants and energy is made into mass in particle accelerators – these technologies prove that all energy equals mass and vice versa, warranting the word energymass. Energymass feels a lot like spacetime and is found in the same E=mc
2
-equation as spacetime. Energymass can be symbolized as
∞ - infinite existence while spacetime and 0 are synonyms.
Energymass (existence, ∞) and spacetime (zero, nothing) (and equations) is all there is to the universe/Reality. All the fundamental parts – the empty framework with its laws of nature and energymass –are in the same E=mc
2
equation. There´s nothing more to the cosmos than energymass & spacetime together (along with equations) and all of those parts are represented in one equation.
Since E=mc
2
is true in nothingness (like 0=0 is), we´ve reached “mentioning existence (starting point C)” from starting point B (nothing).
E=mc
2
being true at the very core of nothingness (like 0=0 is) tethers energymass (existence) to the very core of the framework. Existence is thus necessary if there is nothing (path B summons path C).
Existence (energymass) and non-existence are the core components of our Reality. They are connected and mutually interdependent as is shown in E=mc
2
. They are the space between and “behind/in” objects and the objects themselves, and all rules governing them – there´s nothing more necessary for a full explanation of energymasspacetime/Reality.
The more detailed description, coming from path A´s infinity of Reality, is that there is infinitely much energymasspacetime: the framework is infinite (spacetime is infinite) and what fills it is infinite (energymass/existence is).
The three paths have merged: path A (I think & I am, distinction) led to path C (there´s more to Reality than can be represented due to distinction-antidistinction-opposition) and path B led to defining Reality as energymasspacetime and making existence tethered to nothingness.
In the above sentence we have the seeds to:
- the chronological explanation with its infinite time-line, our universe acceleratingly emptying (observed fact) and nothingness having (laws of nature like E=mc
2
) existence (∞) tethered to it.
The “why existence?”-question – existence exists tethered to non-existence and only under those circumstances does it make sense for existence to exist.
Defining Reality as energymasspacetime (with the footnote from path A: that it is infinite (size-wise and time-wise)) and since it´s one and unseeable (due to distinction-antidistinction opposition) calling it God or monotheism. If you do not worship the grandest (that of which all is part) then I don´t know what you are worshipping.
We don´t need any other concepts than those we´ve gotten from the universal starting points:
Infinity of Reality (infinitely small, infinitely large and infinitely much time)
Reality defined as energymasspacetime i.e. we exist in nothing and therefore it makes sense for us to exist; infinite nothingness and infinite creation.
The monotheistic nature of Reality: distinction (us)-antidistinction (it) being opposites, making it (Reality) inaccessible for representation (for the thinker & thought-realm) i.e. there´s more to Reality than any representation can validly claim to represent.
An infinite size-range & time-range (infinite spacetime as Reality is energymasspacetime and infinite) of E=mc
2
´s existence-nonexistence-duality (energymasspacetime) and
distinction-antidistinction.
Infinite size-range; infinite time-range.
Of energymasspacetime (a synonym for Reality/God)
Distinction (separate entities; the infinitely many things) and anti-distinction (Reality is one) opposition (meaning it´s unintuitive but true – we didn´t evolve to consider “two simultaneous different ´events´ that co-exist/are the same” to be a valid reasoning).
The above three points stumble through the evolved mind´s obstacle course with its unseeabilities & abstract oppositions and is, taken as a whole, a full account for why we (and anything/Reality) exists.
An existential theory is a theory which explains any existing thing´s existence – the universally accepted existential theory has the 3 sub-ideas just listed. This makes it unintuitive/repulsive to our one-answer-seeking evolved logic, but all three sub-ideas are necessary and can´t be summarized into a smaller compartment than “infinite size & time with infinitely much spacetime (nothing) and infinitely much existence/energymass, and all of it contains distinction-antidistinction-opposition”.
How do we know that not something was left out? Let´s draw a size-time-diagram in which every coordinate is a location of energymasspacetime (a part of Reality) with infinity-symbols symbolizing infinite size and infinite time. Every object has some coordinate on this diagram and thus ever thing gets is explanation from this diagram.
All of this – three distinct starting points to paths which merge, the philosophy arising from and which is based on E=mc
2
, three sub-ideas that can´t be further summarized to the existential theory – all this makes for a very 21
st
century theory which´s unintuitiveness (rebellion against evolved logic´s norms) is the reason for why it wasn´t discovered until now. It will likely resemble a mental mess unless you rehearse it and subdue the pitfalls of evolved logic (like “opposites can´t both be true” or “the invisible is false”) using thorough argument.
All previous existential theories start from a single idea (like “God created…” or “the earth arose from an egg”) while my theory rests on three ideas and the curriculum teaching it has three starting points/paths.
The idea (existential theory), though, is true and is universal. It explains how, when the universe becomes nothing again (as it is observed to be becoming), path B shows that nothingness mentions existence and it would break laws of nature (would be absurd) if existene never came to be in a framework that mentions it in E=mc
2
. This coincides with the merging of paths A & C which state that the time-axis (Reality=energymasspace
time
) is infinite) is infinite. The conclusion being that there has been and will be infinitely many Big Bangs (which I´ll get a Nobel prize for discovering).
intro
Author
yonis
Posted on
03/03/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Text (12 pages)
Science 101
Author
yonis
Posted on
16/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Science 101
The universal text
the universal text
The First Universal Text
Advancing civilzation to end religious conflict
To help & show solidarity toward soldiers...
They´re fighting religious wars where the assumption
of a small minority calling themselves muslims
is that God created earth & gave a violent revalation to prophet Muhammed...
If another theory is proposed to explain why Reality was created & how/why humans came to exist, then the violent revalation & holy war end.
The course which teaches this must be as a universal curriculum designed to maximally convince.
It appeals both of the
motivations of helping soldiers and to learning for learning’s sake (being an intellectual).
It has two starting points:
certain truth (agreement on that we think & we exist)
Nothing (which “doesn’t exist” or exists a-priori (without previous further necessary explanation)).
The fastest way to help soldiers using a universal all-convincing course is like listening to rap music: I’ll connect concepts in a sequence so fast you’ll:
miss alot the first time you isten
listen to it multiple times to catch something new every time
see that I use different ways to present the same set of concept
There are three groups of people:
the intellectuals whom learn for learning’s sake
those who take the moral argument of having solidarity with soldiers (that it’s more moral to drive a car after a bottle of vodka than to not save soldiers’ lives by teaching a course)
those who have to be schooled by an authority.
Have you asked something about:
what God is?
I can tell you everything about God.
First of all: there are two intellectual traditions: the unbound creativity of romanticism & cold rationality. If I were writing in the romantical tradition I would spend effort writing beautiful confusing metaphors and sagas – the opposite of which is like PowerPoint bulletpoints with facts & concepts about God. This is about seeking truth in the rational manner – analysis (thought-through argument) over spontaneous gambling.
I try to create a true argument that can be pumped out of propaganda-loud speakers at ISIS, Boko Haram, Al-Shabaan, Al-Qaida, the taliban etc.
If I can tell enough rationality about their God then their fighting-morality, group-loyalty, mission and cohesion disintegrates.
What I produce is kind of as learning-intensive as the theory of relativity, but if put on loud-speakers on the religious wars’ front-lines is more powerful than any cannon.
My canon that outperforms any cannon is a theory/understanding that can be taught in limitlessly many ways – I might have 5000 concepts and you can talk them in any sequence which gives X many courses that teach my theory/science/world-view.
Instead of teaching the science in a random order, can we derive from logic some starting points for the course (making the curriculum scientific/universal)? Yes – 2 starting points akin to that it is scientific/universal to teach history chronologically.
The two starting points are Nothingness and “I think & I am”.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
The first order of business is defining the starting points along the “Nothingness”-path & the “I think & I am” path.
Everyone spontaneously believes that he/she exists & that he/she thinks thoughts, but a man
figured this out
in the 1600s. He asked: “what in an allmighty demon would be fooling me in everything I can be fooled at/in?” What remains? Allmighty fooler on a mission to fool completely in everything.
He figured out “I exist” because there is a self necessary for a/that self to be fooled.
As a distinct line of reasoning he figured out that “being fooled is [thinking/a thought-process]”, in other words that thought exists as certainly as the self.
That is the starting point on the “I think & I exist”-path.
The starting point on the Nothingness-path is a starting point because no prior reason/justification is possible/necessary. What doesn’t exist need not be explained.
It is said that when the concept 0 was invented the ancients got afraid of it because out [energymass neurons]/brain cannot properly represent something emptier than neurons/brain. Nothingness is emptier than we see it as because we are made of and are using somethingness to represent/see/talk about Nothingness.
The next conclusion – the next step on a logical progression – along the ”I think & I am”-path is that there is distinction. There is distinction between thinker and thought. We listed two conclusions – right? – I think AND I exist. Distinction is the separation between thinker & thought. Distinction exists and is a legitimate word.
The conclusion following along the Nothingness-path is that there are laws of nature i.e. Nothingness is non-absurd. As an example: Nothingness would be absurd i.e. it is not true that a thing is not itself i.e. that 1 is not 1 . It’s not like 1=2 now, but now 1=3, and now 1=254. Laws of nature such as 1=1 are stable over time and do not change. Another law of nature that makes the universe non-absurd is that a triangle is not a sphere (geometric truths). Another law of nature, necessary for a rational cosmos, is E=mc
2
.
The next step along the “think & I am”-path is that the distinction exists in something (or nothing). There is one “that of which all is part”, called anti-distinction, in which distinction exists. Reality is one.
The next step along the “Nothingness - E=mc
2
”-path is that there is a law of nature that states, in order for the universe to be non-absurd, that: “if something, say E=m, is mentioned then it must also [exist/be summoned]”. It would be absurd for Nothingness to state “E=mc
2
” forever without E=m (energymass) ever existing.
Footnote: E=mc
2
– the summoning of energymass – is summoned in the smallest spaces simultaneously resulting in a
dense
Big Bang.
Sub-footnote: I drop Nobel prizes like they were growing on trees: the rationale for how to get from Nothingness to Something and the prediction that the Big Bang should be dense is valuable knowledge.
The next step along the “I think & I am”-path is that observation/representation is distinction. This is a repetition of the step where we said “distinction is a legitimate word i.e. there are
both
thinker AND thought”. We, as observers/representers, are in the distinction-realm – as opposed to the anti-distinction-realm – when we observe/represent/always. This means that we, due to distinction – anti-distinction – opposition, do not see [“that of which all is part”/Reality].
The next step in the Nothingness-path is that there is not just one size. There is a range of sizes – each with energymasspacetime (E=mc
2
) – large to small / small to large. Size & time are connected as spacetime. Everything/anything we know about has a size and a time.
The next step along the I think & I am –path is that, since we do not see Reality (that of which all is part) there is more to Reality than can be [known/distinctly made sense of/hypothesized]. Based on the conclusion that everything has a size & time, there must be more sizes & times than can be hypothesized.
Why is Nothingness a good starting point?
Why is “I think & I am” a good starting point?
I switch between the two in a universal way.
I can’t do more universal than tasking the two starts of a universal course and intertwining the logical steps step by step.
I would like to show you two synonymous diagrams. The difference between them is in how time is represented. The difference is the same as between a rolled-out video-tape and a TV.
Imagine ten TV screens stacked in a column. Imagine that the topmost TV shows the largest size, the lowestmost TV shows the smallest size and there is a continuum of TVs/sizes between them.
The other synonymous diagram has size on the vertical axis, time on the horizontal axis and every coordinate represents all of the following:
- a size-time (every object has a size and a time)
- a sub-field of science
- a piece of energymasspacetime.
So far we’ve looked at three different concepts – the self, spacetime and anti-distinction – which, if you see them, look the same.
The self can’t be seen because one is it, spacetime can’t be seen because it’s emptier than neurons can represent it as, and
all of
Reality (anti-distinction) can’t be seen because representation is distinction.
These three concepts are inter-connected, though: the self exists as neurons in spacetime, the self and spacetime exist in Reality.
Reality is defined as all of energymasspacetime
and the self exists as a location within a size-time.
Three unseeable concepts with connections between them.
The phrase “God created earth” is parallelled/rivalled by the phrase “an infinite size-range of energymasspacetime and distinction-anti-distinction-opposition”. Both claim to be the explanation to why we exist.
The validity of an existential theory (a theory for why there is existence) is tested by whether it can predict a DNA-strand (and thus the evolution up to humans).
If a theory predicts that there ought to be a DNA-strand (at some coordinate in the infinite
size-time-diagram)
the theory has the scientific predictive quality that a theory needs.
Again, keeping with the universal tradition of this text, just like with the “I think & I am” & “Nothingness” dual paths that I intertwined, the continuation of this book will be written as it is written by others aiming at writing something that can be derived from science (empty space in front of oneself) no matter where in our infinite universe one is located.
The two paths that we meet now are that “the ancients wrote about God/Reality” (how to make
religion make sense in a modern context) and “the existential theory”.
If you want to make the ancients’ concepts God and Soul make sense, God is just a synonym for Reality. I tend to ask religious people:
Is God:
a part within “that of which all is part”/Reality,
a synonym for “that of which all is part”/Reality, or
“beyond”/”outside” Reality (which doesn’t have an outside; anything “outside” is unreal)?
Obviously God has to stay real (there is no spacetime for Him to be located in “outside” energymasspacetime, and I put “outside” in quotes because energymasspacetime has no outside), and God cannot be smaller than (a part of) “that of which all is part”. Allah akbar / God is all-encompassing means there is nothing greater than Him, which is true about the word Reality (energymasspacetime / “that of which all is part”).
We already said that “that of which all is part cannot be observed/represented” (meaning there is more to it than infinitely much hypothesizing/representing) and this is said about God too. We also know that Reality is one (not 2 or 0.75) and this is the meaning of the word monotheism.
The three things we know about God/Reality – that it is one, that one cannot see it and that there’s nothing greater – are too many for the Reality-God-connection (as synonyms) to be coincidence. The ancients had access to the speculation about how we as selves are distinct and therefore Reality (the most all-encompassing), due to it being anti-distinction, is unobservable. God comes as infinite
(1)
size-time-axises of
(2)
energymasspacetime and
(3)
distinction-anti-distinction-opposition, because this three-idea theory predicts the dawn of a DNA-strand.
“That the self can’t be seen because one is it” is an analysis the ancients would’ve had access to too using their civilized survey of what is true about the unavoidable observer in every observation. This makes science warrant and want the word “soul” as a synonym for the “thinker” we looked at in “thinker & thought exist”.
This should’ve answered the question: “which parts of religion make sense in a modern context?”. God and Soul are useful concepts – and we know much more about both thanks to science than the ancients
did. It shouldn’t come as a surprize that the scientific lense’s minimalistic interpretation of religion makes a lot of ritual and dogma unscientific i.e. not universal. I couldn’t possibly add any ritual to this book’s curriculum except that the size-time-diagram is a square so tattoo parlors should see a spike in people wanting that universal diagram tattooed on themselves, along with a triangle (with its tip originating from the center size/center of the square) representing evolution’s increasing complexity/fine-tuning and size of the DNA.
It’s a 3D diagram – the square and the triangle being in two different dimensions.
Notice the square (size-time-diagram) and the triangle (evolution) which together are the existential theory, if you remember that E=mc
2
gave us that it is energymasspacetime and the opposition between distinction and anti-distinction. No matter your location in this infinite space (space of the human size is infinite because the size-range is infinite) you’d arrive at the same picture and text.
Wearing this on t-shirts is as universal of a ritual as we will get.
Let’s break down the existential theory’s (God’s) three ideas:
an infinite size-range (with infinite time because size and time are connected as spacetime). Take your body’s size as an example – it is because of the size larger than itself and the sizes smaller than itself. Sizes are because of one another. If the size-range is infinite then this gives infinitely many reasons for any size existing, in other words “the first cause” it retreating infinitely far into the small and large. This explains why a size-range such as our known range exists at all. This is pillar one of the three-pillar existential theory.
of energymasspacetime. Spacetime is emptier than our neurons can represent it as and human endevours are for evolutionary reasons meant to deal with energymass (existence). E=mc
2
is the equation where energymass is mentioned in the E=m-part and the speed of light squared (speed is space (distance) over time) mentions spacetime – in the same equation; they’re connected. This is a pillar of the existential theory because it explains why there can be something (at every size): it is intertwined (and exists in) Nothingness. In Nothing, Something.
distinction-anti-distinction-opposition i.e. the opposition between distinction (like separate observers) and anti-distinction (defined as “that one of which all is part”). We started this book
with two paths: “I think & I am” (and distinction between them) and Nothingness (which is intertwined with Somethingness/energymass). Both are correct conclusions eventhough we need “both-and -thinking” to deal with the facts that Reality is both one and has distinction in it.
This three-pillared/three-idea existential theory rivals “God created the universe” and predicts that the Big Bang ought to begin as dense (because E=mc
2
is true in the smallest spaces) and end in dark energy/accelarating cosmis expansion i.e. that the universe becomes emptier until a region of Nothingness appears again – the universe hates a vacuum and since E=mc
2
is true in that vacuum, the vacuum cannot remain empty. This three-pillared theory predicts the dense beginning of the universe and the empty end of the universe – both the dense beginning and emptying future can be observed with telescopes. The theory also predicts, since it has an infinite size-range, that there should be a DNA-strand and thus evolution.
God thus can only remain as three possibilities:
God is a synonym for Reality (and thanks to this book, we know the three-pillared theory which goes into detail about God); God is “that of which all is part”, energymasspacetime.
God is an unnecessary assumption – the word God can be dropped out of our vocabularies because the theory works fine stand-alone. We don’t need a synonym for Reality since we do have the word Reality already, so we deny God because it comes with so much superstitious baggage.
God is added - just like Santa Claus, elfs, fairies and unicorns can be added – to the theory eventhough it doesn’t make sense to add it. There is no spacetime “outside” energymasspacetime and hence to place for a God to be; God cannot be separate/distinct from Reality without being unreal.
This book, by being universally written:
proves that space is infinite (because there is infinitely large) and thus other planets with human life should write the exact same book,
presents a universal idea in a near-universal way (distinction between the curriculum and the science itself),
advanced civilization / is the pinnacle of human civilization when it comes to the big questions like God, Soul and the existential theory,
can cause skisms within religious war-groups i.e. end war for religious reasons,
is a propaganda-weapon to be put on loud-speakers on the current wars’ front-lines.
I thought it fitting, to keep the curriculum universal, to add “what this book can do for humanity” right after the chapter about the existential theory. The next chapter will deal with evolution (beginning from a DNA-strand).
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen, Sweden
Author
yonis
Posted on
12/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on The universal text
Aspergers meditation
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/asperger-meditation.mp3
Aspergers = detaljfokus (fokus på detaljer).
Bästa kognitiva terapin något som vidgar fokuset.
Om man kan få medvetandet i ett tillstånd som gör överblicken & periferiseendet bättre…
Meditation är att lägga aspergerfokus på något som tar bort FOKUS
rumtid tömmer medvetandet
jaget, vars jakt man ger upp då man inte kan lägga sig själv utanför sig själv.
“Det som allt är del av (anti-distinktion)”
Svårt att hålla fokus på dem av evolutionära skäl.
Man blir bättre (mer van vid att låta fokus återvända till dem) ju mer man tränar.
Testa fokusera på dem i sociala sammanhang.
Author
yonis
Posted on
11/02/2017
14/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Aspergers meditation
If you eradicate religion from the face of the earth then theres not as much to build little militant enclaves around. Group-bonding will be based on friendships, companies and governments – not religious affiliations. Eradicating religion breaks down something evil at the core of human beings.
If religion is eradicated then there is no pretext such as jihad for mere power/resource-grabbing, revenge, hybris etc. The true purpose of future wars will be clearer, blatant and more awkward if religion is out of the way.
Then we have those few terrorist nutcases who actually believe in (violent) religion and they need to be reached by my teaching.
Author
yonis
Posted on
04/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on
Solidarity with soldiers
Author
yonis
Posted on
03/02/2017
03/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Solidarity with soldiers
Solidarity with soldiers
Author
yonis
Posted on
02/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Solidarity with soldiers
Universal course has 3 beginnings leading up to DNA
Author
yonis
Posted on
01/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Universal course has 3 beginnings leading up to DNA
Religious war
Author
yonis
Posted on
01/02/2017
01/02/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Religious war
Interse 25 01 2017 (15 mins)
Everyone agrees they they themselves exist, because if one would get fooled in everyone one can be fooled in then one would exist there anyway and be fooled. So one knows that one exists. Then one also knows that one thinks because “to get fooled” is a thought-process. Thus we have two things: I think and I exist. And the distinction between them: and on the flipside of the paper we have the opposite of that: anti-distinction, and this can also be called “that of which all is part”/Reality. And since we are in the distinction-side of the paper when we see something; when we see something there is distinction between us and that thing. Thus we cannot represent or see that which is on the other side of the paper i.e. that of which all is part / Reality. Nothing can represent – because it is distinct – Reality. So whatever which is distinct cannot… whatever that is observed or represented is distinct and therefore is not… therefore does not represent Reality / “that of which all is part”. So we have distinction and anti-distinction as opposing poles.
This leads to that there is more to Reality than we can represent; or that anything can represent – be it a computer or a coffee-cup or whatever. And if there is more to Reality and what we know about Reality is that it comes as a size-time-diagram…; that there are sizes and times. One can draw it as a diagram with size on one axis and time on the other, then there is more to that diagram than we can represent. In other words the sizerange is infinite and the size-axis is infinite. We can think about a bigger size than  the largest we know and then we are representing it – we have a hypothesis about it. And even in that case it is true that we are on the distinction-side of the paper, we are representing (which includes distinction) and therefore there is even more than we can even hypothesize about (regarding Reality).
In an infinite sizerange of infinitely much time there ought to be a little DNA-strand which reproduces itself; i.e. if the sizerange is infinite from quantum physics to cosmology and infinitely much past the largest and the smallest then there is a DNA-strand somewhere in that infinity. Thus we have reached DNA from certain truth: from that we think and we exist, to distinction, to anti-distinction, to that there is more to Reality than we can observe/represent and therefore there is more to the size-axis than we can hypothesize, and therefore there is a DNA-strand.
The second way of coming to the DNA-strand from a good beginning is that we start with nothing. In nothing – empty space… which is emptier than our neurons think of it as. We are made of energymass, we are made of something so we have a hard time representing nothing; nothing is emptier than we represent it as. In this nothing there are laws of nature such as 1 is 1; it is not absurd: it is not so that right now 1=1, but now 1 is 2, and now 1 is 155, but instead one always equals one. Such laws of nature are built-in into nothing. The law of nature that a triangle is not a sphere. Another law of nature is E=mc
2
– that energymass is found in the same equation as spacetime is found in – and spacetime is again that nothingness (and it is joined together with energymass in E=mc
2
). So we get something from nothing, that is to say something and nothing are intertwined and it is the laws of nature between them which makes it so that one can logically say that “in nothing exists E=mc
2
, E=mc
2
mentions energymass/existence, and therefore existence much exist because nothing cannot mention existence without existence existing. This existence then comes as an infinite sizerange and then we arrive at the DNA-strand again: that it ought to exist as existence in an infinite sizerange.
We have started with nothing, went to the laws of nature, to E=mc
2
which mentions energymass and thus energymass has to exist because if it is mentioned then it must also exist (otherwise it’d be absurd). And thus we reach the DNA-strand from nothing.
The third way of beginning this course with is that we have three pillars to the existential theory: we have an infinite sizerange, of energymasspacetime (something & nothing),  and we have this left-and-right-side-of-the-paper (distinction & anti-distinction). In an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime and distinction- anti-distinction –opposition.
All of these three roads, that is to say: I think and I exist; nothing and the 3 pillars to the existential theory leads to the three pillars of the existential theory (that there is an infinite sizerange and therefore a DNA-strand). And when there is a DNA-strand / when there is reproduction with the DNA-strand, then there is 1) survival and death (the ones who survive survive and go forward in evolution), and the 2)nd principle that the number of offspring has significance (that there is a difference between 0 or 1 or 5 or 10 offspring in evolution), and the 3)rd principle is that there is mutation in each generation-shift (that parents are different from their young, that the DNA-strand mutates over time).
When we get to dinosaurs we’ll get to how cortex (the flexible part of the brain) started in birds in order to adapt the brain to the body, so that if the bird was born with a too short wing then the brain could sense that “my body is like this” “so I should fly in another way than if my wings were of equal length”. It adapts the brain to the body and learns to fly normally even if it is hurted or something similar. So we have a flexible part of the brain which starts thus.
Then, after a while, evolves a function where we have two brain-halves: one visual and one linguistic with serotonine (which activates various thoughts, and if a sequence of though leads to some evolutionary benefit (that is: if one’s plan is completeable and leads to happiness) then it is marked with dopamine (as important) and then one continues: serotonine – planning different ways from it and if a way works it is marked with dopamine). This function of having two brain-halves with serotonine and dopamine evolved as a function to let us for example plan our way upward in the hierarchy and therefore get the largest number of offspring. It was a function which was evolutionarily useful.
The 2
nd
function in the brain is classed into three categories: the homeostatic (the internal (hunger and thirst etc), they have to do with the body internally and are a medium-sized category, a medium-sized number of these that are in the body), then there are very many that have to do with our senses (if we see a snake, if we see a squirrel, if we see this or that… and how we react to hearing noises from the bushes (we get anxiety because it’s a tiger)) – there are alot of these social/external which we are made aware of through our senses (so it’s a larger category than the homeostatic one). And a third last tiny category is that which we do when we don’t have any homeostatic or social/external which is interesting, and that is that which we do when we are idle. And that is to plan how to get friends, how to get power, how one gets resources (money), one advances one’s world-view (curiosity), plans reproduction – and those are the approximately 5 things we tend to do when we don’t have anything ongoing. So a little category of those things we do when we are idle.
There is the utilitarian principle that “people seek happiness”, we want to create happiness: and evolution has made us so that we maximize these reproductive benefits (like survival, reproduction and power-seeking and security and expanding one’s world-view). We always maximize them so maybe we don’t have the happiest emotions that the universe allows to have in one’s brain, but instead we have the most maximizing emotions. We have an emotional repertoire which maximizes our chances in evolution. But when we learn more about DNA and how DNA creates the brain, one can create a brain in a jar which has the maximum-happiness-emotions instead of evolutionarily maximizing (greed and such). So I think that the future – since we have this utilitarian principle that we want to maximize happiness – we will create a brain using DNA-engineering which is maximally happy – it needs no body to be that but it can be a brain in a jar which is maximally happy. I think we will create those and they will remain for millions of years, but humanity seems to pollute its planet and finish its oil so in 100 years maybe it starts to go downward for us humans. We finish the planet – the oil doesn’t come back and the pollution remains, so every planet’s (in the infinite universe) history culminates in having a short period of oil (a few hundred years) and then we have these brains which are super-happy in their jars for millions of years. It’s a little bit South Park / Futurama over the whole thing – it’s cartoonish that we create a farm with brains in jars which are the happiest that there is and we humans finish the oil and do ordinary human things. That is the future.
But I thought that this course, in itself, this order in which I’ve presented the ideas; that that setup is universal (they teach the same course on other planets). They begin with the three different beginnings to the course (I think & I exist, distinction & anti-distinction, that it leads to that there is more to Reality than we can know – more sizes – and therefore there ought to be a DNA-strand), or that there is nothing (laws of nature, the laws of nature mention energymass and thus energymass has to exist) and then it leads to a DNA-strand, or that we have 3 pillars (an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime and distinction-anti-distinction-opposition) and that leads to these three pillars which leads to these three principles in the evolurionary theory (that those who survive survive, the number of offspring matters and there is mutation in each generation-shift); then comes cortex which begins by adapting the brain to the animal, and then that it is used to climb up in the hierarchy (for example) – how one gets friends, how one makes different plans… – and therefore comes this left-right-brainhalf with serotonine and dopamine (that function) comes into the game and the one who has the largest brain plans his or her way to the top over millions of years (and this is why the brain grew): because we planned, we are planning animals. And then it ends with that we DNA-engineer brains which are super-happy in their jars, and finish the oil and pollute the planet. And this ought to be how every planets’ history goes and the course itself is taught and exists on other planets too so they teach exactly the same curriculum (so there are infinitely many planets with the same text that we just made).
http://www.sizescale.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/ZOOM0001_01.mp3
Author
yonis
Posted on
25/01/2017
25/01/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Interse 25 01 2017 (15 mins)
Posts navigation
Page
1
Page
2
Page
3
Next page
Search for:
Search
Recent Posts
Text (12 pages)
Science 101
The universal text
Aspergers meditation
694
Recent Comments
Archives
March 2017
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
January 2016
Categories
Dagbok
Old
The book + diagrams
Trashcan
Trey
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.org
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Proudly powered by WordPress

Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen – Teach what you study here to end religious wars
Skip to content
Jonatan Matti Alex Mustonen
Teach what you study here to end religious wars
Plato and Socrates, God and Darwin
Plato and Socrates were resurreced to have a conversation in the 21st century.
Plato: What´s the state of the world? Everything we do emits carbon and those emissions will raise the sea-levels to unbearable heights.
Socrates: What´s unbearable?
Plato: Many people will have to move and there´s no spare space to move to. They´ll be refugees fleeing from water.
God joined the conversation: But that´s 60 years into the future.
Plato: Another “state of the world”-thing is that oil is a limited resource and we´ll run out of if.
Socrates: But that´s also a century in the future – before that oil prices will rise causing increasing poverty.
Plato: So we´re at the pinnacle of the world regarding these two points: it´s like we´ve climbed a mountain and there´s never been and will never be as good a time as there is already and that there´ll be the coming century. But we´ve got millions of years left on the planet – how do we make the inevitable decline of global wealth more bearable, less destructive? The fall is coming – how do we dampen the blow? From the top of the mountain there´s only downhill to go.
God: I evolved you into a group-dwelling species and you form groups around nationhood, around language, around favorite football teams… Pretty much everything seems to be able to bind you humans together – which is another way of saying that you are bound apart from another group of anoter nation/language/football team. You, as seen throughout history and is seen today, find power in numbers and…
Plato: We fight wars – we fight them as groups, meaning something binds us together. The more serious the binding force the more outrageous the war. The larger the number of people that identify as some group the more war morale and power in numbers they experience.
Socrates: How do we, preparing for the coming downhill collapse of global wealth, make groups as tiny and the least bound together as possible? There are countless groups in the world – what could impact them all so that their bonds become more arbitrary to them?
Plato: Nationhood is already a terrible binder because everyone knows that it´s a human invention. Race was a big deal in Hitler´s era but the past 70 years has tought us that there is excellence in every race and travel/cosmopolitan cities has shown us that race – which is most notable in skin color – is a primitive and weak binder. Plus it´s unchangeable: if future wars are fought based on racial bonds – which sounds ridicilous – there´s nothing we can do to prevent people from grouping according to skin-color. If you want to fight a war you must have something more significant than race to dehumanize the other group, and it´s no longer possible to dehumanize based on racial differences because we´ve met people of every race and seen that the difference caused by race is too small to warrant dehumanization and war.
God: If race or nation were your strongest binders, they´d be as weak as can be and that´s good for the future wealth-collapse. You should want weak binders that people are indifferent to – that prevents large-scale wars.
Plato: The context that we´re in is of a coming decline of wealth – the sooner the better, actually, because every moment that passes releases more carbon dioxide and burns more oil. If we could all become as civilized as can be, which means to have group-bonds that won´t lead to large-scale war when the economy turns down, then we´d be as prepared as can be for the future downturn.
Socrates: What were the causes for the latest wars – the Afghanistan and Iraq/Syria wars – to escalate into as big as they were?
Plato: Hussein in Iraq wasn´t a civilized man – he did not follow the maxim “know thyself”. He had group bonds that made him want to enrich his people (over other people) based on a cult of personality.
God: He basically didn´t know himself in regards to that power-hungryness/ambition is infinite – he acted out of greed and out of a group-bond to the Iraqi people: he wasn´t a global citizen nor educated to know himself. He annexed a United Nations member, ridiculing the United Nations – setting a dangerous president which basically would´ve made a new international rule that says “you can annex your neighbours and no international entity will stop you”. Other nations seeing Hussein succeed might have done the same thing – causing a global set of “eat your weaker neighbour”-wars. And if he or his successor would have, in the coming 50 years, developed a nuclear bomb then the United Nations couldn´t have stopped his expansionist plans but would´ve had to agree to let him take whatever he wants. And like said: he wanted infinitely much because he didn´t understand his greed, and he was group-bound to a set of people instead of to everyone.
Plato: So if civilizing TV-programs or books would´ve reached out to Hussein, making him not group-bind as strongly as he did, he wouldn´t have killed others to enrich (what he thought was) his group. Celebrity and power (from his cult of personality-style state) got to his head. If he would´ve been more of a thinking person instead of reacting like an animal to the celebrity (and wanting to “give back to his fans”) he wouldn´t have been such an issue in the eyes of The World Police. The aftermath of the Iraq war was religiously bound groups.
Socrates: What about the Afghanistan war?
Plato: Afghanistan was harboring terrorists – the leaders there too felt power from the celebrity/cult of personality and you don´t need many people praising you to get that vibe of “we´re strong”. Why did they harbor terrorists? Religious bonds and the fact that any billion-dollar army looks impressive, triggering the emotion “we´re strong”, no matter how insignificant in comparison to USA´s army. Again a civilizing mission to that part of the world to educate people about themselves would´ve helped: to educate about the evolved emotional repertoire and how it gets triggered into feeling “we´re too strong to mess with” from basically anything modern. Plus their faith in the Quran – that God is on any Quran-reader´s side rather than the Christians´/Atheists´ side.
God: So your latest wars were basically a combination of uneducated people who didn´t have a clue about what evolution made the emotional repertoire into, and the derivatives of that such as that seeing 500 armed men gives the illusion of incomprehendable might no matter how trivial that army is compared to USA´s. Non-understanding of the emotional repertoire and what it is used to i.e. what it has been triggered by during millions of years. And a strong group-binding force specifically about me, God.
Plato: And this will not end until humanity combines its best information with its mass-communication media in a sufficient way to civilize everyone, and until the God-debate is finally settled. A little “know thyself”-civilizing education and an argument that completes the theory of God.
God: So if you don´t have a civilizing/educating mission through your TV-screens nor finish your knowledge about Me, the recent wars in Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan is what the future wars due to decline of the oil reservoirs and the sea-level rise will resemble.
Plato: Religion is the strongest changeable binding force – it makes wars become the scale of nations instead of local turf gang wars. If the world is impoverishing due to global warming and peak oil, religion is the factor that decides whether group-bonds i.e. armies are scaled as large as nations or the size of families.
God: Indeed – your various claims about me is what decides whether you´ll have a World War 3 clash of civilizations with collapsed nations adhering to what they call God´s law (like sharia), but if you get rid of all the false claims in religion then the inevitable coming decline will be bearably stable because the biggest army you can gather is not gathered with soldiers swearing oaths on holy books. The context is that of a coming decline but it is the debate about God that decides whether it´ll be with gargantuan strong group-bonds like those caused by religion, or more rational group bonds based on nation or cooperation over material goals.
Socrates: What if, in the aftermath of the Iraq war against Hussein, there wouldn´t have been religion (or at least multiple different religions)? Would the men that now made up ISIS have been able to organize and bind together into big groups? They had the idea that no modern nation resembles the kaliphate that the Quran demands – so without the Quran: would they have had an ideology/mission that they would´ve fought to accomplish? The Quran gave them both a “holy”/super-human group-bond based on a holy book which twists the reader´s prioritizes into accomplishing the holy mission of setting up sharia law in a kaliphate (and expanding that islam as much as possible i.e. world-domination). It´s impossible to imagine world events going as bad at they did – with large cities laid to ruin – without the debate about God being ongoing. If the debate had been finished it´s impossible to imagine the latest wars.
Plato: As long as the God-debate is unfinished, there´ll be holy-book-based group-bonds (meaning large numbers of people acting as one). Right now the secular armies of the world are keeping wars like this from erupting by military means, but that´s obviously not the best solution for the problems caused by the God-debate and its bonding abilities. Going forward, into the inevitable decline of increasing global poverty, its best to read about and keep up to date on the God-debate, adding to it if possible.
Socrates: Wasn´t Libya in a choice between western values and islamic values, with around 50% of the population on one side and 50% on the other, and because of the lack of a solution to the God-debate the idea “God want´s sharia law” was in the top ten causes for why the country destabilized? The debate could just as well have been between promiscuity vs. marriage, but because the God-debate isn´t settled one of the major forces that plunged the country into chaos was the belief that God had written the Quran. If it could´ve been proven that God definitely didn´t write the Quran, the civil war would´ve been less heated.
God: Future wars, the ones that inevitably will erupt from economic decline due to unpreventable forces like global warming or peak oil, can either be large-scale ones like those of the recent past or just crime and civil unrest like seen in many “stable” countries that don´t make the news because there´s no large-scale armed grouping. Large-scale and religion are like the two sides of a coin – they´re a pair. Bonding causes larger chaos and religion causes bonding. Whether you´ll have major wars or just civil unrest once the economic decline comes and is impossible to roll back depends on how well you handle the God-debate. The God-debate is the most major debate/military issue you can have in this pre-collapse era. If this debate is not held within a limited time-frame, you will have large-scale group-bonding based on religion and those wars will be too grand for letting the mind debate the abstract science that is the God-debate. In this era of relative calmness before the storm, the most important issue for you to debate is the big question: what is God? It´ll save millions of lives – as it would have if it had been completely debated before the Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan wars. The outcome won´t be that humans morph into angels – we´ll still have deaths during the coming and forever lasting impoverishment of humanity, but the chaos can be reduced thousand-fold if humanity accomplishes to civilize itself by using its mind to completely comprehend those major questions that make “religion” and “religious wars” into existing phenomena. And the time for engaging the God-debate it limited: once religious bonding makes things heat up into large scale conflict due to “us vs. them” group loyalties in a world in decline, it´ll be much harder to get a message – an abstract scientific one – across.
Chapter 2: Revelations
Darwin was resurrected and summoned to the conversation.
Darwin: Humans have always like revelations.
Socrates: What do you mean by “liked revelations”?
Darwin: There are eras of revelations. At the dawn of ape-man some warlord must have figured out that it boost fighting morale to have every commandment be divine rather than a choice by man. This warranted a priest or a priest-king who led the war as a commander. Those tribes who had mere men (and proclaimed that mere men made decisions) would´ve had a lower fighting morale than the tribe with divine revelation-commands in war. It was a simple con-artist tactic for the commander to say that his commands came from a divine source – and many propably saw through the scam – but even if it boosted morale just a little bit (and terrified the enemy tribe just a little bit in those superstitious early ape-man days) it was an evolutionary advantage. Soon all tribes adopted the same tactic because it gave evolutionary benefits in tribal wars. Another parallell theory which doesn´t contradict the first one is that parents wanted to raise their kids in as safe a mindset as possible, and thus invented that some invisible deity was the cause of earthquakes, disease, etc and should be worshipped. Or perhaps someone worshipped his ancestors and when asked “why?” he invented that they were divine – both to get more respect to himself and to have the other tribe-members worship those parents. A tool of war in the first theory, an explanation to everything mysterious (rather have an earthquake be a divine will than to have no theory about it whatsoever) or the want for celebrity and respect in the third theory. Gods are simply bound to exist at the dawn of language. People have always liked revelations. A very good book can be written by a totally unknown author or the same book can be written by the most famous author – it´s more likely to be considered worthier a book if it´s written by someone who already has celebrity and respect. The same goes for revelations: a revelation is something which´s author has celebrity and respect, making the revelation “seem better”/sell more. That´s why ad campaigns for cars or perfumes rent as respected of a person as is possible to advertise it. A revelation is to have a statement get respect because it was given by something super-human (a divinity). Something super-human (in eras where such superstitions were not scoffed at) as the author of some statement made more people buy into that statement – we respect (or respected when those things were still believed in) the super-human/divine and we respect their statements/revelations.
Plato: Then there´s another kind of revelation that got respect. Descartes who lived in the 1600s got respect, fame and was invited to live with the Queen of Sweden because he had gotten an idea which certainly told us something true. Revelations can either be con men´s statements like they were from ape-man and forward, or they can actually claim something which is verifyably true. Descartes, propably having his mind overcrowded by the masses of revelations that had accumulated to his time, asked: “what would be true if all my statements were false?”. What would remain if I tossed all my knowledge and ideas into the trash? Are we stuck with countless unverifyable statements, some contradicting eachother, not knowing which ones are true and which ones are not? Obviously not since statements about architecture are obviously true since they build houses, while contradictory statements do not. So Descartes dared to throw all his knowledge in the trash to see what remained. He found certain truth: that he exists – because even if he was wrong or was being fooled in everything he thought to be true, there´d still be a “he” there. He certainly exists no matter what. Same thing goes for thoughts: being wrong or being fooled is a thinking-process so even if he was wrong or was being fooled in everything he thought, there´d still be thought.
Socrates: So he figured out that he thinks and he exists.
God: These are not one statement – they are two.
Socrates: What does that mean?
God: I´ll tell you later – just agree with me that there is distinction between thinker and thought – that the statements are two. It´s building on certain truth, and it´s possible to build a whole… whatever it is that “saves the world” from the coming economic decline by having everyone build on certain truth until the God-debate is settled. Remembering “distinction” (between thinker and thought) will prevent the horror-scenario of large-scale future wars between people group-bound by religions, and instead – since everyone built a whole world-view on certain truth – have a more stable decline in the future. “Distinction” i.e. remembering that there are two certain truths (thinker and thought) is a step on the way toward a plan that will save humanity from destroying itself as much as it would if we didn´t build our world-views on certain truth.
Plato: So after an era of “revelation”-revelations invented by anyone for whatever purpose, coming from Darwin´s ape-man´s revelations, Descartes, in the 1600s, invented a revelation – certain truth: I think and I exist – which got him invited to the Queen of Sweden for the rest of his life. People have always liked revelations and even verifyable truth-claims like Descartes´ get respect.
God: I have set it as true that each one of you humans can verify in your own mind´s eye that you do certainly exist and that there certainly is thought – and thus there is distinction.
Darwin: Distinction is an abstract word. That two objects are separate/different from one another is one of those notions and ape-man never made into language – there was never the evolutionary need to talk about “distinction”. Yes: one could say that one banana is different from another (and one wants the bigger one), but to have Distinction exist stand-alone as a distinct notion is abstract thinking and we are not evolved to do that. For millions of years the caveman word for “distinction” was only used in a sentance – not stand-alone as in “distinction certainly exists because thinker and thought are both certain truths”.
Plato: This is one of those pitfalls of the mind – biases if you will – that repell some and attract others. Curiosity is the key for wiring one´s brain…
God: As I would like to have it wired. I am not so much for your evolved thinking – to comprehend me you have to think abstractly. However weird it feels, if you want true revelation – like the one you got from Descartes – you need curiosity (an eagerness for truth) to overcome various pitfalls of the mind / biases like the one where certain words should be used in a context (to differentiate one banana as distinct from another) – God wants you to, in order to prevent future large-scale wars, understand abstract truths like saying “distinction certainly exists and was concluded based on Descartes´ I think and I am -certain truth”. True revelations include abstractness.
Plato: Which is why Descartes got invited to the Queen of Sweden.
Socrates: Philosophy gives one revelation if revelation is defined as truth.
God: People have always liked God´s truth, whether it be ape-man´s false “truths” or Descartes´ certain truth.
Socrates: Isn´t “distinction” a wide concept used on even atoms being distinct from one another? My chair is distinct from my pillow which is distinct from my thinker and thought.
God: Indeed – the chinese called “distinction” “the ten thousand things” because 10 000 is about as many items as the mind can comprehend visually.
Darwin: The human brain evolved its size so much so that it can imagine 10 000 soldiers, but like Stalin said: one death is a tragedy, a million deaths is just a statistic. The chinese meant the abstraction “distinction” when they said “the ten thousand things” – they were speaking metaphorically of the very notion of distinction. They didn´t literally count 10 000 something – in their philosophy they called the entire world “the ten thousand things” which simply means that distinction exists. The chinese and Descartes proved the same point: it is God´s word that distinction is a legitimate concept in a world that is one as a whole.
Socrates: Is there an opposition between Reality being one (you´ve never heard anyone say “two Realities”) and there being multiple things (distinction)? The definition of Reality is that all things are part of it; the external world comes as a singular.
Plato: It is certainly possible to, in the mind´s eye, uphold the notion of a single Reality of which everything is part. Even the word “everything” is a single word referring to all distinct items/notions at once.
God: That of which all is part is one.
Darwin: This is again a pitfall of the mind: we evolved to consider events, memories and stories as that either, for example, that person was there or he was some other place – but he was not here and there at the same time. We evolved to rearrange matter for evolutionary benefits and never were we confronted with a scenario where two opposite scenarios were simultaneously true. An item was either here or there – not both places at once. Either a death had occurred or it hadn´t – not both cases simultaneously. Even in caveman days did we have a word for “the world” (like in the sentence: “the world is full of items”) – a single word to refer to all things at once.
God: And I did indeed make One Reality – not two or three, nor half of one. It can be counted: 1.
Darwin: So while the caveman days had words like “distinction” and “reality”…
Plato: And Reality can be defined as anti-distinction because it is a single word referring to a single Creation.
God: And in religious speech you have never heard priests say “God created Creations” with “creations” as plural.
Darwin: Cavemen used both the all-encompassing everything-containing notion “Reality”/”The world” in sentences like “it´s ONE nasty world” and they used the distinction-notion in sentectes like “the two bananas are distinct”, but it wasn´t until the past maybe 5000 years that both notions were taken out of contexts, analyzed independently and realized to be the opposites of one another. This is a pitfall of the mind, it took hundreds of thousands of years of using the words in contexts before someone took them out of contexts and opposed them to one another. We didn´t evolve to handle two true scenarios/cases simultaneously (but we did evolve to think of everything as scenarios/cases, which is why abstract thinking is so new).
Plato: There are many ways to say that there is both distinction and anti-distinction. One can use synonyms to them like separation vs. Reality; many vs. One. But “that of which all is part” – the most all-encompassing, One Reality, should always be capitalized when writing it because it is the only thing worth worshipping.
God: Am I it or am I part of it?
Plato: You are a synonym to it because no monotheism considers God a part of something larger; if God were a part of something larger than that larger should be the One which worship is directed toward. If one worships Reality then one worships something greater than God, if God is a part within a larger whole.
Socrates: Imagine two groups of worshippers and assume God is part of a larger whole called Reality (which is one because it is defined as “that of which all is part”): which group worships the greater? Which group worships God plus something more? God must be a synonym for Reality.
Plato: God is one – Reality is one. God is all-encompassing/”akbar” – Reality is all-encompassing/”akbar”.
Darwin: Eventhough we´ve now taken both distinction out of any “natural” context and defined Reality as one, we´re still not at the peak of complexity regarding how non-ape-like our thinking can get. If we pit the two notions we´re talking about against eachother, we´d call them distinction and anti-distinction (one is anti-distinction), and our evolved mind goes bananas when two opposites are true. But what´s more is that distinction happens in Reality; distinction happens in anti-distinction. The single One is divided up into many distinct pieces – but yet there is all the time only One (Reality is always a valid concept). So one of our two notions is not only the opposite of the other, it exists within or is the property of the other. Distinctiveness is the property that a single Reality upholds. As a student of evolution, thinking about the scenarios that never happened in the natural world, there never was a putting of two opposites within one another, both being abstract and out of any natural context like Reality and distinction are. We evolved to think in terms of stories, memories and scenarios – not in terms of opposites containing eachother both being abstract. Not only was our toolkit (our mind) not made for this job: it has an explicit bias and avoidance of having two true opposites (especially when they´re made of one another).
Socrates: Is this just a mental game to build a mental sculpture without conclusion?
God: No – it is revelation; you don´t like it because you evolved. It´s built on certain truth and it´s gotten quite complex: this revelation has expanded. But there is a punchline: you cannot see God. As Descartes said: you are distinct and thus opposites to Me because I am anti-distinction. You know for certain that you think – and when you think of me you are not entering anti-separation: you are just holding a distinct notion in front of you which is supposed to be anti-separation/Reality/God.
Plato: This is the dawn of monotheisms. Someone realized that by being distinct, as Descartes proved for each one of us that we are – observation is separation – we cannot see anti-distinction.
Darwin: Here too is a pitfall of the mind. The very sentence “I cannot see X” when talking about X as things the mind can summon in the mind´s eye, sounds like a contradiction to evolved ears. If you said X/Reality/anti-distinction then you assume that you are beholding it in your mind´s eye. But you are not! Separation is inherent in the very act of beholding something in the mind´s eye and we are trying to behold the opposite of separation. Does it get more complex than this? We built the sculpture – and it is all revelation because it goes step-by-step from certain truth – and now we can conclude that we, as distinct entities (observation is distinction) cannot see our finest, most recent conclusion even in the mind´s eye: we can´t see Reality.
Plato: Ah, that reminds me of my cave metaphor. I realized, about 2000 years ago when I was still alive, that our setting of words to things, our learned properties of tools, our differing opinions, our contradicting histories of things like who won a fight – all prove that our mental maps are not equal to the external “territory”. It´s like we´re chained to the wall of a cave and our vision sees only the shadows in the sunlight against the wall of the cave – we don´t see out the entrence of the cave, we only see the shadows. This realization that our mental representations of things are not the things themselves – that senses are distorting middlemen and so is the mind too – can be phrased as “the map is not the territory”.
God: No! The “distinction to anti-distinction opposition” that we built up to from certain truth and led us to the conclusion that as distinct entities/thinkers/observers we do not see “that of which all is part”/Reality/God/anti-
distinction, is not your 2000 year old conclusion about “the map is not the territory”. Plato, your discovery that you told through your cave-metaphor has been significant and repeated until the modern age, and will always be taught to children – it was a great discovery, but it´s not the birth of monotheism: it´s not the distinction vs. anti-distinction “we cannot see Reality”-thesis.
Plato: I know, the two just remind me of one another.
Darwin: The difference between them is that you don´t get monotheism out of knowing that your mental map is not “the territory”. Plato said, 2000 years ago through his cave metaphor, that “we interpret things”. It is a pitfall of the mind to not see this notion, but it makes perfect sense since we work (maximize evolutionary benefits) faster by our brains being wired to disregard that we work on interpretations of the world. In fact: it would´ve been a cumbersome non-benefitial mutation to have the brain, as it works, to always be reminded of that it is working on the world through a middleman i.e. it is interpreting. Why would we have evolved the knowledge that we´re interpreting instead of acting without middleman? Such things had to be invented and Plato was the first to have invented it 2000 years ago. We´re not born with that knowledge, it´s taught from generation to the next. Every animal just acts and no animal, except humans when they´re taught Platos discovery, has gotten evolutionary benefits from acknowledging Plato´s cave metaphor i.e. “the map is not the territory” i.e. there is a middleman (senses, interpretations, mental maps, knowledge).
God: But all of this is off-topic to the discussion you were having about not seeing Me. You have to distinguish between what we can call “distinction-antidistinction-
opposition” which is the sculpture we built logic-by-logic from certain truth, and Plato´s “the map is not the territory”-statement about the middleman. Having a middleman to our, for evolutionary reasons assumed to be direct contact with the world, is not the birthplace of monotheism. Talking about why One anti-distinct Reality – the only thing worth worshipping because it contains everything – cannot be seen because we are, as Descartes said, distinct (and thus opposite to anti-distinction), is the birthplace of monotheism. We left off, on our sculpture, at “distinction cannot see Reality” and then we got reminded of Plato´s “the map is not the territory”-discovery – but the two discoveries are different because “the map is not the territory” in no way utilizes the all-encompassing anti-distinction concept nor the certain-truth distinction-concept, nor does it lead to monotheism. Plato´s discovery is just an observation, taught forward as a metaphor, about our senses and interpretations of an external world which we gain information about.
Socrates: Why did God give us two so similar but different revelations?
God: Because one is simple and the other one is complex.
Darwin: Both are evolutionary pitfalls of the mind, but Platos´ contains just one pitfall: that we didn´t evolve to acknowledge any middleman. Plato acknowledged a middleman (i.e. our interpretive nature) and that´s all there was to it. In the teaching that saves the world from group-bonding once decline occurs is based on and builds upon certain truth. In it we´ve gotten past many pitfalls – not just one like in Plato´s discovery. Plato is fully understood if one acknowledges one evolutionary pitfall – one distinction between how we, due to evolution, naturally think and how we “ought to think”.
God: Ought to think means how I urge you to think – you get revelation – you find our more about me – by overcoming all pitfalls that evolution gave you. Plato´s finding gets you past one pitfall – and that´s good: you´ve found out more about me. But the reason he was the starter of philosophy and not the ender of all religious wars is because he didn´t build a sculpture made out of avoidances of pitfalls.
Socrates: I see that the story where Descartes, distinction and anti-distinction are involved is separate from Plato´s 2000 year old cave metaphor. I see the difference in complexity i.e. number of pitfalls when I compare the platonic cave-metaphor´s resemblance to that there are two equally legitimate truths – distinction and anti-distinction – and they exist atop of eachother i.e. simultaneously, but are opposites, and we humans are in one (distinction) in one way, but in anti-distinction (Reality) in another way. “We don´t see Reality” are words that slip of our tounge regarding both the platonic cave-metaphor and the… whatever it´s called: story that ends wars.
God: Logic about me; revelation confirmed by each and everyone individually and in groups; the truth rather than the conflict that causes bloodshed. Plato overcame one pitfall. In the story based on Descartes´ distinction and God being all-encompassing Reality which is one and can´t be represented we´ve gotten to the point that easily reminds humans of Plato´s cave metaphor: “I don´t see Reality/anti-distinction”, but we get side-tracked if we think Plato´s cave metaphor is the same as the opposition (and simultaneous intertwinedness) between distinction and anti-distinction; between ourselves and Reality. Humans associate too easily – when two different works of logic leads to the summary of a conclusion using the same phrase, we think that the two works of logic are the same – but they´re not and that´s the pitfall.
Plato: It´s akin to two pieces of art – paintings – both containing the same image of a bird. Just because one sentence is the same doesn´t mean its meaning is the same, or that the reasons for it are the same.
Socrates: Nor are the conclusions that stem from it the same.
Darwin: Too quick associations – even though the prelude to them was different and the way in which the sentence “I don´t see Reality” is meant is different – is a pitfall. For the story that ends religious wars it´s better to not even know Plato´s cave-metaphor. There must be a clear distinction in one´s mind between the platonic “I don´t see Reality” (because of middlemen i.e. the map-territory-distinction) and the more fundamental “I don´t see Reality” which is based on that both distinction and anti-distinction are legitimate but opposite concepts.
Socrates: Let´s say we´ve unlearned Plato´s cave-metaphor: why is our “I don´t see Reality” – because of distinction and anti-distinction – “more fundamental”?
God: Because it says something more thorough-going than the shallow-penetrating platonic statement. Guess how I, God, defined “see”?
Is this going to clarify things in religion, preventing grand clashes in the future? Religion scales up war – is the coming statement going to scale down those future wars?
God: Yes. The way I defined “see” or observer or hear or smell or taste or behold in your mind´s eye or comprehend or think about some notion, is to use the word “represent” to refer to all of these. Like in the sentence “the coffe cup represents the chair” it means that the coffee cup is a symbol – like a vision or a thought-up notion is – and it´s pointing toward the chair / it symbolizes the chair. Guess how vaguely I´ve defined “it´s pointing toward” and “it symbolizes”?
Plato: The human definition would involve humans or computers, because without humans nor computers there wouldn´t be anything capable of handeling a representation of a chair using a coffee cup. It´s subjective what represents what – humans decide what represents what at any one moment.
Socrates: Would there the coffee cup represent the chair if all humans and all computers would be removed?
God: Yes and no. Maybe. This shows how vaguely I´ve defined “represents”. If you exclude humans from the game, anything can randomly and arbitrarily represent (be a pointer to and a symbol of) anything. A human life is the very representation of things as mental objects – we haven´t seen a single thing without a neuron or two being parked as the symbol that refers to whatever external we are referring to.
Socrates: Our lives are that of representations; without them we´d be nothing – we´d be spider-brains brain-wise. Our favorite task is to represent. We humans might have firm beliefs about that the word “cow” means something that can give milk, and we´re repulsed by those who use the word “cow” to mean comb. That repulsion and insiting on a word represent what society agrees it should represent is what language is built of.
Darwin: We´d fall into pitfalls of the mind all the time is we weren´t strict about what is allowed to represent what and what is not allowed to represent what. If the ideas and words in our heads suddenly started becoming representours and representees, we would´ve gone crazy: our world-view wouldn´t make sense nor would we be able to speak coherently. Human strictness about how firmly or loosely something (an idea) represents something else (a visual object), or what is not allowed to represent what, was an evolutionary necessty for complex world-views/plans to evolve.
God: But back to the topic at hand, how do I, God, define “represent” – am I strict about which clusters or matter are allowed to represent which other clusters of matter? Would I allow a tiny region of empty space – part of Reality as it is – represent all the galaxies in the cosmos simultaneously?
Plato: Why not: the strictness in human representations is an evolved trait – we don´t go around abusing the gift by letting random things represent random things; to prove this: you´ve propably never heard of particularly a coffee cup representing a chair. We evolved to represent as to create mental maps which include evolved inventions like hierarchies (king vs. slave), personalities (is he a threat to me or not?), social bonds between various people (are the three of those protect eachother?) – but we also map less alive things like the level of calmness in the country which we live in, or the grand-scale context involving God i.e. that of which all is part is the umbrella under which all other maps reside – be they geographical, social, how to use tools, plans for the future, memories of the past.
Darwin: We have clear biases in our map-making; some things interest us while other things that we could possibly represent don´t interest us. Our representations are collected through biases.
Plato: Don´t computers also represent? The location A654 on the hard-drive might point to the data stored on the other side of the drive, which when interpreted through a image-viewing program is a family photo.
Socrates: Indeed – so you could say that if computers stay working and all humans die, then there´d still be representation because one area or item is only useful when being akin to a finger pointing to the representee. But what about the cup and the chair -example? A relationship of representing was summoned between them by a human simply stating that one represents the other. We could jot it down on paper and now the paper would be the keeper and communicator of that relationship of representation. A computer is just like a piece of paper in this regard – but so is the human brain: the human brain´s representing ability seems different from that of a piece of paper´s or a computer´s because we see evolutionary benefits (we see feeling) in our representations. Representation happens so fast to us – and our feelings tell us whether the connections or chronological sequence of representations following one another is an evolutionary benefit or its opposite (to be loved or feared). Anatomically, if you opened up the brain under a microscope, you´d see neurons as the ideas (representees and representors) and the “arms” (axons, dendrites) of the neuron – connecting it to other neurons – as the relationship called “representation” or association. If a complex visual stimulus (of you seeing a cow) is, through the microscope, observed to happen at the back of your brain, you´d see it connect to a much smaller “mind´s cow”-concept both as a linguistic item and an imagined mind´s eye visual item. How is this different from gluing a photograph of a cow on the same piece of paper onto which a 3-year-old has drawn “a cow”, and writing “a cow” as a third representor of the actual – and now we get to Plato´s map-territory-distinction – cow itself? There is a real cow on the meadow but our paper has three objects referring to it – just as our brain has three objects referring to it. If we´d brainstorm around the word “cow” on the paper, the paper would exactly resemble how our brain represents external phenomena like the cow.
God: So what differentiates you, human, from a computer or a piece of paper is that you bias your representations and seek through your representations in search for evolutionary benefits, is that right?
Plato: My intuition tells me that my world-map is more significant than the cow on the paper or the coffeecup determined to represent the chair.
Darwin: Our world-view is what our plans are made in; it is the house of our imaginary future and of our past; our mental map is the context to everything that happens. Whether God gave revelations to bronze-age men is either true or false, but it is the mental map i.e. our world-view that sets the context for what is possible and what is impossible. The future wars coming from the economic decline of the world will be religious wars if humanity does not steer away from its current path. Religious wars is all about “true or false”-claims about the context, about the house of our plans, about our world-view. Being of differing opinions on questions about the context and what it can and can´t do (for example: give revelations other than as human-found truths about God) is the bringer of large-scale war; if the context could be agreed upon by everyone – if we can start from Descartes´ certain truth and work our way up to having a context/world-view that explains everything – then we can ask where/if a revelation-giving side-in-war-choosing God fits in it. The context/world-view is what it is: so far we´ve gone from Descartes certain truth of I exist and thought exists, to claiming that the former warrants the idea “distinction”, then we talked about anti-distinction (that of which all is part / Reality / God (if God is as grand and thus as much worth worshipping as Reality).
Darwin: Then we talked about how human life is all representation, biased and emotional such.
God: That´s why you have a different intuition and relationship toward “representation” that I do. I´m very liberal when it comes to whom or what or when something starts and stops representing something else. I know that representing is very important for you humans, but I didn´t design the cosmos antropocentrically (with you as my dearest and your representations more worthwhile than any other phenomena). Representation to me means as much as dancing: God doesn´t dance. If you take great delight in it, nay – if your whole life all is it from beginning til end – then still I don´t care about it any more than the sudden, totally independent of humans noticing, pictures painting or computers storing, representation of a chair using a coffee cup. I´ll let the coffee cup represent the chair while at the same time having nothing represent nothing in the same scenario. I´ll both set representation as the relationship between the coffee cup and chair, and simultaneously set non-representation as the relationship. You can see my point if two strangers walk into the room never having thought about representation in the way we´re talking about it: I´ll ask them: does the coffee cup represent the chair? One person says yes and the other says no. Both are right and both are wrong. Representation is arbitrary. From a God´s eye point-of-view anything can represent anything, nothing can represent everything – anything you can imagine the word “represent” be used for is always simultaneously both active and inactive. That´s why you get difficulties in getting the world world to agree on a single dictionary definition for any one word: God didn´t make these (representation) rules, man created them to better be able to communicate. It´s a shared agreement amongst humans (and cats and dogs if they know their names). A word represents something but there is no universal language (God didn´t choose, say, arabic as The Language) meaning that representing itself is a human game which eases gaining evolutionary benefits. God couldn´t care less what we use to represent what and there definitely is no God-given representations available.
Socrates: We left off, in our philosophy, at the conclusion that “we don´t see (see meaning represent) Reality” because we are in the realm of distinctions while Reality is defined as that of which all is part i.e. anti-distinction. The distinction-antidistinction relationship is as follows: they are both legitimate words; they are opposites but both are true simultaneously and always; humans exist in both realms but as seers/representors in the distinction-realm (because observation is separation) and as non-seers/non-representers when trying to see/represent Reality. When we try to represent anti-distinction we must ask ourselves: how did God define “represent”/”see”. We concluded that although humans and other map-making animals put great importance on representations, God does not. God will let a coffee cup represent a chair and simultaneously not – the notion “represents” as a relationship between two objects is from God´s point of view there´s zero importance to what represents what: representation is an arbitrary relationship to God (if it can be called “a relationship” at all because it is us map-making humans that for evolutionary reasons insist on biasing our thoughts to have such relationships in the first place). The act of representing is 100% loosely (not strictly) defined from God´s point of view; representing is antropocentric – something humans do while the relationship “this represents that” both exists and doesn´t exist stand-alone from humans in nature.
God: I don´t care if a rock represents a tree right now – representations, like beauty is said to be, is in the eye of the beholder and eyeless things like Gods simply aren´t concerned with what humans have defined to represent what.
Socrates: So the smallest could represent the largest?
God: Why not – if you will it, it does. If you claim the representing is as you say, then the representing is as you say. I´ve defined the notion “represents” as loosely as can be – maximally loosely – it is a completely arbitrary human game to which I´ve set no rules.
Plato: Remember the part of the discourse when we concluded that “we don´t see/represent Reality” (and not because of the platonic cave-metaphor but because of the more fundamental opposition between distinction and anti-distinction)? Representation being defined by God as it is, combined with the statement “I don´t represent Reality (due to distinction-antidistinction-
opposition)” is…
God: Revelation – truth about Me. More holy than any holy book. The more complex (reaching a higher level of intelligence) the conclusion, the more distinct are you from the lower animals and the more detailed the sculpture/world-view you´re building becomes. You´re basically wiring your brain to become as I, God, make it if you think about me enough.
Plato: True – this pinnacle of intellectual civilization has, if space is infinite and evolution common, been reached on infinitely many planets before ours first though. If time is infinite then what we´re discussing is the apex of a mountain that every civilization in eternity climbs.
Darwin: The reason it´s new is because it´s hard. The reason it´s hard is because evolution gave us a toolkit (mind) that falls into pitfalls as soon as intellectual discourse doesn´t fit what cavemen were dealing with in their maps, plans etc – and trust me: their context/most all-encompassing map/world-view, even though they liked to have divinities with wills as causes for earthquakes, did not get to this point – coming from Certain Truth, avoiding tens of pitfalls that want to make us give up the whole search for truth and a universal mind/world-view.
Plato: Darwin, this world-view – because it is basically a “view of Reality/the world” albeit a very well organized, abstract one with pitfalls to be avoided – isn´t what our brain evolved to deal with as “the context under which our lives unfold”, is it? Yet all this abstractness, all this highly civilized talk like taking the word “represent” out of context and asking what God thinks about it, is indeed true.
Socrates: I´m not going to talk about this topic again nor remember any of this unless this discussion leads up to a conclusion, preferrably seeable, which explains (answers the questions why? and how?) anything and everything I might want to ask. It should be so full-fledged that pseudo-explanations like the religious ones pale in comparison. That´d defeat group-bonding and thus humanity can evade large-scale future wars.
God: Relax – we are not even half-way through the story / sequence of logical thoughts. The last thing we arrived at was that I don´t define “represents” and you, or a computer, or why not something that doesn´t even seem to do representing, represents one thing using another.
Socrates: “I represent Reality” is a true claim since “represents” could mean “see” and we do indeed see, so we represent – and what do we represent? A part of Reality. No-one would deny that they experience/represent everyday life. But, because of distinction-antidistinction-
opposition nothing can represent antidistinction because all representation is tethered to distinction. Distinction – having one thing have the relationship “I represent…” toward another thing – is a necessity for representation unless representation is so loosely defined by God that you don´t even need two things to do representation – maybe God´s opinion is that a thing can represent itself without any distinction present. That is a question for another day, so for now let´s consider humans: we do see something – we do experience/represent life – and there is distinction present in all human representations when we represent Reality/anti-distinction. But if, for human representations, distinction is unavoidable when claiming to represent the opposite of distinction, then the opposite of distinction – that of which all is part / Reality – cannot be represented in its anti-distinct nature.
Plato: Again we are back at the conclusion “I don´t see Reality” – and as you can see we don´t see everything as One: if we did, we wouldn´t see or know the difference between ourselves, a chair and a coffee cup. Human representations always have distinction in it like Descartes said when he gave us two certain truths instead of one: I think and – insert distinction here – I exist.
God: It is a universal truth – a law of nature, if you will – that nothing which sees can see anti-distinction. Reality is like a two-sided coin: on one side you have “the ten thousand things”/distinction and on the other side you have “that of which all is part”/the most all-encompassing singular anti-distinction. This is why humans can say “I don´t see Reality” – they mean one of the sides of the coin.
Plato: When we see the distinction-side of the coin – the only side which we can see – do we see all there is to Reality? I don´t know. But when we consider/represent as best we can the other side of the coin (antidistinction), we certainly do not see Reality.
God: If we focus on the distinction-side of the coin, you are unaware of the answer to the question: “is there more to Reality than can be represented?”. The answer can either be yes or no – maybe our distinct representations – or let´s say a coffeecup independent of humans – represent all there is to Reality. But on the other side of the coin (the anti-distinction-side) you get a clear answer to whether you see/represent all of Reality or not: no, you do not.
Plato: We, nor a coffee-cup, represents – eventhough represents is infinitely loosely defined – something but not Reality because Reality is anti-distinction by being that of which all is part. Certainly there is one Reality and certainly does nothing, despite the looseness of the definition of “represents”, represent that Reality.
God: I gave Reality the property of being unseeable/unrepresentable. Sure – the coin has another side which leaves the question: “can any representation manage to represent all of Reality?” an unclear answer: maybe what we see when we are distinct (as we always are) all of Reality. But the other side of the coin tells us that no representation – not even the coffeecup – is enough to represent Reality. Even in the thought-experiment that things are allowed to represent themselves – no distinction needed – there´d be at least two things (and thus not anti-distinction) if something (even Reality as a whole itself) would try to represent Reality as a whole.
Socrates: So God, through our reasoning/logic, gave us two questions: “can X represent Reality when Reality is considered to be its infinitely many parts (distinction)?” and “can X represent Reality when Reality is considered to be just one all-encompassing whole (anti-distinction)? The questions can be rephrased as: “is Reality infinite?” and the first question (when Reality is considered as distinct parts) leaves the question “is Reality infinite?” unanswered – we simply don´t know when we limit our information like this. But the second question gives a clear answer to the question “is Reality infinite?” because of two reasons: 1) we do not see/represent Reality eventhough we do experience life i.e. represent something. No matter how loose God considers representations to be, no representation represents “that of which all is part” because it is anti-distinction and representation tethers distinction to whatever is being represented. We do see some (distinction) but no representation represents anti-distinction which is synonymous to Reality; we do see something but we don´t see Reality (and not for the platonic-cave reason; instead the reason is the opposition between anti-distinction (the oneness of Reality) and distinction (which is inevitably used when representation occurs (and it occurs all the time according to God, regardless of humans)).
Plato: We got two questions from God and one premise: the premise was that representation is distinction. The first question was “do we see Reality (when the side of the coin that shows distinction is considered). The answer to this first question was that we don´t know whether we represent “all of it” or not (whether we represent “that of which all is part”/Reality or if we don´t). If we don´t, considering how loosely “represents” is defined by God, we still know that representation occurs i.e. the coffeecup can be said to represent that of which all is part: the coffee cup represents as much as is possibly allowed: I could claim that one notion of mine represents that of which all is part. This being the answer to the first question, it would be possible for Reality to be finite because I can claim to represent Reality using one notion. With this distinction-based question and answer Reality could be finite or it could be infinite; Reality could be considered to be represented if Reality is finite – we simply don´t know if Reality is finite or infinite when we´re looking at the “Reality is the ten thousand things / distinction”-side of the coin. The second question, “do we see Reality (when the side of the coin that shows anti-distinction is considered?”, has only one answer: no, we do not represent Reality because representation is distinction. Whatever we represent, whatever is being represented is not Reality when Reality is considered to be anti-distinction (because distinction is inherent in representations). Anti-distinction cannot be represented; we don´t represent Reality no matter how much or what we represent.
God: Reality comes as both anti-distinction and distinction. When you asked questions about the distinction-version of Reality you got the answer that you might represent it or you might not – it may be infinite or it may not be (if it is infinite it can´t be represented). When you asked questions about the anti-distinction version of Reality you got the answer that no matter the representation and no matter how loosely God has defined what representation means, representation cannot represent Reality because distinction is inherent in representation. You cannot represent Reality.
Plato: Representation is distinction like when Descartes said that the self that certainly exists is distinct from a notion/thought/idea/
representation (which certainly exists too). When Reality´s distinction-side is considered, you don´t know if all of Reality can be represented or not – but it´s an open possibility that a coffee cup or mental notion is a reference to “all of it”, and if that be the case then Reality must be finite. We got two questions that start out the same: “do we see Reality if Reality is…” 1) distinct entities, 2) a single all-encompassing whole. We obviously see distinct entities but we don´t know whether a notion or coffee cup, based on God´s definition of “represents”, can be said to represent Reality. If Reality would at this point in our logical discourse be known to be infinite, then nothing could represent it. But it is only when we ask “can something represent Reality when Reality is anti-distinction?” that we get the answer “representation is distinction i.e. you cannot represent Reality”, meaning that without a doubt Reality must be infinite because there is no way to represent it.
Darwin: It´s a pitfall of the mind that Reality has this dual nature of both being One and simultaneously being many distinct parts. This dual nature lets God pose two questions to us which both are asked in order to answer a third question, namely “is there infinitely much to Reality?”. If Reality would only be distinction and not at all anti-distinction then we´d get a “maybe – I don´t know”-answer to the questions “is Reality infinite?” and “can Reality be represented?”. But since the second question deals with Reality´s anti-distinction-nature, we get the answer that there is no way to represent it – and yet we talk about it! For logic to occur Reality must be infinite because our words obviously refer to it (represent it) but we know that we do not represent it because it is anti-distinction and words are distinction. Distinct words can, as we do in this very sentence, represent it (mind you how loosely God uses the word “represents”/”refers”) – and yet one claim holds true: that anti-distinction cannot be represented. We do represent and refer to something – and we try to make that something “that of which all is part” (a singular anti-distinction) – and we stand with two facts:
Plato: 1) That we do represent Reality because we are speaking about it, using notions like anti-distinction/”that of which all is part” to represent it in that very loose way in which God defined “represents” – and yet we know that the distinction-antidistinction-
opposition makes us unable to do what we just said we did: speak about / refer to / represent Reality. The only solution to this is that there is more to Reality than can be referred to / spoken about / represented. We do represent something (and we try to make that something “Reality”) with our words, yet we know from distinction-antidistinction-
opposition that there is a reason more fundamental than Plato´s cave metaphor which makes Reality incapable of being represented. We represent something (even with the word “Reality”) but we do not represent Reality. This is proof that there is infinitely much to Reality – when we speak about “that of which all is part” we are only speaking about part of it (no matter how much hypotheses we add to our representor).
Socrates: So the distinction-antidistinction-
opposition that makes representations of Reality impossible make it so because we are capable of representing something (of Reality) but, despite the looseness of God´s word “represents”, we are not referring to / representing all of Reality. No matter how much we refer to, we do not refer to Reality as a whole – and the only way this makes sense is by Reality being infinite.
Plato: When Reality´s distinction-side is considered, we don´t know if Reality is infinite or not because our representation (be it a word or a coffee cup) doesn´t yield the answer: “not even that representation, with not even that definition of the word ‘represents’, represents (all of) Reality”. But when considering our blindness in any of our representations when Reality´s anti-distinction-nature is considered, making a representation of Reality yields the answer: “by the distinct referring to the anti-distinct, the representation does not refer to Reality”, which answers “yes” on the question “is Reality infinite?” because we can play around infinitely much with God´s definition of “represents” and still none of our attempts represents Reality. The word “anti-distinction” represents Reality but since it simultaneously, due to distinction-antidistinction-
opposition, does not represent Reality, then Reality must be infinite. We do see something but we don´t see all of it, no matter how much we try to play around with the word “represents” or “refers to”.
Darwin: How much of a pitfall for the mind is that?! We ask the same question – “do I represent Reality?” – to both Reality´s distinct flipside of the coin and to Reality´s anti-distinct flipside of the coin. From the distinct side we can´t conclude anything about the infinity of Reality, but from the anti-distinct side we can conclude that Reality is infinite. We asked one question – “do I represent Reality?” – and based on the answers we were able to answer another question: “is Reality infinite?”. Yes it is because only the infinite cannot be represented (with God´s loose definition of “representation”/”reference to”). There are so many pitfalls of the mind regarding this that it boggles the mind – but new 21st century science can only exist if it goes through mental acrobatics to yield a goal like the answer “Reality is infinite (and we only represent part of the infinite)”.
God: Good job, humans! You´ve led an uninterrupted path from Certain Truth to that Reality is Infinite without making any assumptions along the way. What you have so far is True – your world-view has now, without a doubt, gotten the notion “infinite Reality”. Now the hard part of logic is over and only easy conclusions remain – in no time you´ll have a world-view that, based on the 100% certain methodology used so far, explains the creation of the world, the dawn of evolution, the human emotional repertoire etc. But as a reward for having found out that I, God, am infinite I´ll tell you a direct conclusion from the fact of infinity: there are infinitely many planets where the exact same mental acrobatics were done to prove the exact same point; in the now-proven-to-be infinite Reality there are infinitely many creatures just like you whom used the exact same sequence of logical steps, beginning from exactly the same “I think & I am”-starting point – and their brains, their “world-view” also added infinity to the grandest context in which everyone´s lives unfold. To be funny about it: you´re thinking like an alien (extraterrestrial, which there are infinitely many of because Reality is infinite). To be serious about it: your civilization just took a step in a universal direction – along God´s path – instead of into some rare arbitrary direction. You´ve just proven that there are infinitely many civilizations and you proved that by using certain truth plus logic – do you know how many other civilizations across infinite space have taken, are taking or will take the exact same direction (logic is light a flashlight that guides us through the dark into the right direction) using the exact same starting point (certain truth), prevented the exact same future horror-scenario (wars over lack of universal knowledge, or rather group-bonds based on non-universal holy books) and avoided/overcome the same darwinian pitfalls which were the reason why this science was invented so late in human history. Everyone likes a revelation – if you believe something came directly from God you are appropriate to respect it; the infinite Reality in which infinitely many aliens use the exact same sequence of thoughts (beginning from certain truth, noticing the pitfalls, etc until the infinity of Reality is proven) – the exact same textbook/curriculum. The fundamental ideas taught so far can be taught in any order, but only one or a few orders are the same orders that are chosen, based on logic, on the majority of alien civilizations. The language of the book will be different from planet to planet but the order of the ideas, the universal evolution-based pitfall warnings, the most essential elements of this book are true revelation if revelation is defined to be universal i.e. accessible to logic on any of the infinitely many planets.
Most planets, it can be reasonably assumed, appriciate science and thus let logic guide them in their shopping for a world-view that makes sense. No matter how much time out of infinitely much time passes, God has installed the same pitfalls, order or ideas, the same starting point etc etc – the same book in essence – in the very fabric of Reality. It is exactly what´s needed to both advance civilization and to prevent coming wars from having an element of holy book-based group-bonding which scales up the war. Everyone likes a revelation and what you´ve just read is the first truly holy book, the first world-view applicable to everyone (throughout an infinite universe), the first revelation by God choosing the order of ideas, where the pitfalls will be, what the starting point should be, etc.
Plato: We got from “I think and I am” to “distinction” to “all is part of a single Reality called anti-distinction” to asking questions about the representability of Reality and thus being able to ask what the answers to the representability-questions tell us about the extent/infinity of Reality. God, what´s the next step on this universal sequence? We want to wire our brain more in the way that you chose to be good for thinking animals. We want to be more like the majority of highly-civilized planets – to have the same ideas and the same associations and explanations between those ideas.
Socrates: I´m assuming the next idea to be presented won´t be a random choice from among many ideas, but will be the logically chosen by the path set by God in eternity, and thus the practicality on the majority of highly-civilized planets.
God: Reality is infinite, but do you know what is infinite about Reality? Every object or even region of empty space has two important parameters that determine its nature: size and time. Objects of a large size, say galaxies, are studied as a separate field of science – it´s its separate school of thought – compared to objects of a smaller size, say atoms. You can ask these two questions about any object: what is its size and where along a time-axis is it located? If you study every field of science – from cosmology to quantum physics, evolutionary psychology to the history of freedom – you´ll end up needing a wall, because a wall is a square and each and every piece of knowledge will fit on a square-shaped size-time-coordinate system.
Socrates: We´ve said that Reality is infinite. Now we´ve said that every thing has a size and a time and thus fits into a size-time-diagram. What exactly in or about Reality is it that is infinite, if not the size-axis and time-axis which as a square displays every object known to man. What else could be infinite if it´s not size and time that are infinite?
Plato: Size is just a way of saying “three dimensions, each dimension´s length being a particular number of centimeters”. Can one separate time from that? No: time is inherent in space and space is inherent in time. Time is called “the 4th dimension”. “Spacetime” is a single word referring to either a finite or infinite spacial region with either a finite or infinite length of time. Space (to which size is inherent) and time are united, yet on a square-shaped size-time-diagram the two are on axises perpendicular to one another. Drawing the diagram like so is the easiest – and thus universal i.e. favorite among God and the majority of aliens – way of getting, into a single picture, all that science has ever found or can hope to find when it comes to regions or objects. The footnote is that the two axises might look separate but are in reality a single spacetime – separating them is done for the cosmetic reason that then all that is known by science fits into a single square picture.
God: Guess how many highly-civilized planets in my infinite realm do indeed use the square to symbolize their knowledge of everything that has a size and time? The square – not the cube nor the sphere nor the triangle – is God´s visual. It is this square that is infinite from the conclusion that Reality is infinite. It can´t be so that only size or only time is infinite because the two are connected: a single spacetime. There is infinitely large and infinitely small (spaces) and there is infinitely much past and infinitely much future (time). The universal symbol for this – God´s drawing – is a square with infinity-symbols at the ends of each axis.
Plato: Even a kid knows the following but it is worth mentioning because it, even though obvious, is God´s truth and leads to something much more significant: sizes are because of one another; the smaller makes up the larger and the larger is the reason why the smaller can exist. We can call this “sizes justify one another”, the word “justify” meaning a “because”-relationship or a “is, for its existence, dependant on”-relationship. Now that we know that Reality is infinite and that everything science will ever find in Reality will fit on a wall (square), we´ll do like both aliens and God wants us to and proclaim that the size-axis and by extension the relationship between any two sizes is justification. When you ask the question: “why is there the object of X size? / how does object of X size work?” the answer inevitably will be – regardless of whether you´re asking about a galaxy or you are a medical doctor asking about an organ – to zoom in and zoom out: to look at the larger and the smaller.
God: Do you know why 99.999999% of alien planets with advanced civilizations, when they draw the size-axis on their wall, let the upward (roof) direction represent the larger and the down (floor) direction represent the smaller? It feels like a bit of a stretch to say it´s directly God´s truth / God´s way of representing time along a vertical axis. It turns out that humans tend to see more (larger things) when they lift their head, and when they bow their head way down they tend to be akin to zooming in on detail. It comes from how evolution shaped human anatomy – which is universal too, alike on all planets, and thus God´s system too. The telescopes looked upward and the microscopes downward. There´s no other reason to represent upward on the diagram as “larger” and downward as smaller – it is basically history (evolutionary such) that determines that all planets represent up as large.
Plato: What about the horizontal time axis? Some cultures read and write from left to right and others from right to left.
God: Left-right and right-left is totally arbitrary – there was no evolutionary benefit in reading in one direction over the other, and there´s nothing in God´s work from which one can derive that one of these directions is more universal than the other. Looking at all infinitely many highly-civilized planets, it´s 50/50 whether they represent future to the left or to the right – but they do represent time horizontally because size naturally occupies the perpendicular vertical axis.
Plato: God, here´s a riddle for you: guess why you become less necessary due to the justification-relationship between sizes? Why does the vertical axis diminish your significance, at least regarding the bronze-age view of you and the view of you that combatants that think you choose sides in wars have?
God: It used to be said that I was the cause for everything. But with Reality being infinite and Reality coming as a size-time-diagram, and the relationship that runs up-down and down-up the vertical “size” axis being justification, there is one part less mystery to the existence of the world when the size-axis is infinite, meaning justification as a relationship between sizes has infinite reach. Justification means “the answer to the question: why is there X?” – X is justified (by the smaller and the larger than X). If the answer for why there is the field of science called size X i.e. why there are objects of particular size-dependant characteristics found in size X, the answer is because of the larger than X and because of the smaller than X. If that relationship between sizes runs infinitely deep into the infinitely large and into the infinitely small, then there is always a reason for the reason for the reason … for the reason why there are X-sized objects. The same reasoning works on the entire known size-range (which runs from cosmology/the visible universe to quantum physics): there is infinitely much reason/justification as smaller sizes (below our vertical axis on our diagram) and the same applies for the larger sizes: the “first cause” (as if there were one) keeps retreating the further we look for it and it can withdraw into infinity (because Reality is infinite).
Darwin: Ever since the first question about cause and effect was asked (in ape-man days) the answering reply was that some willing divinity had wanted whatever was asked about to exist – even be it the entire known world. The same answer has been given countless times in modern days. It took quite a while of civilizational progress before the answer to “why is there a world that ranges from large to small and small to large? Why is there everything between cosmology and quantum-physics size-wise?” was answered based on the hitherto established conclusion that Reality is infinite and that all parts of Reality fit on a size-time-diagram: the reason for why the known size-range exists is the infinitely small and the infinitely large – “our” size-range is but a part of an infinite size-range where the relationship of justification observed between any two sizes in our sizerange also exists between any sizes in the infinite size-range. The domain name
www.sizerange.com
was available until 2017, meaning not many people plot all knowledge on a size-time-diagram on a wall and reason that the reason why there is the vertical (size) axis in the first place is because it is infinite (giving “infinite justification” as the reason, and a valid reason it is!).
God: From concluding that Reality is infinite, you concluded that – since everything about Reality fits on a size-time-diagram – then size must be infinite, which gives a reason why there is any one size or any one size-range.
Plato: From ape-man days until modern times the word “God” was the reason for everything and anything´s existence, but ever since the discovery of the size-range being infinite God has one less “creating the world”-task to do; no longer is mystery or a will needed to explain why all fields of science (say, between cosmology and quantum physics) exist: infinite justification; infinity-symbols on each axis on the size-time-diagram.
Darwin: For the entirety of our evolution, our mental maps have incorporated things like where to go to find water, whom one´s parents are… – geographical and social maps have been our only maps. More near the modern times our maps became multi-purpose tools able to learn how to read/write and use computers. Tool-use/technology-use is something different, though, than having the entire context in which one lives be (represented as) a square with infinity symbols in each corner, with infinite size-justification and infinite time-justification being secured truths about the square. We evolved to have our largest context within which we live our lives be a geographical or social map, or something like a nation or religion (with its rituals etc) be both the binding force between people and the – rather mysterious-feeling – context and cause for one´s existence. The “theory of the world”, the map which incorporated all smaller maps like geographical and social ones, used to be the nation state or the religion one belonged to. And now it´s supposed to change into the multi-detail thorough-reasoned universal size-time-diagram? Never has the largests of the contexts for our lives been so dependant on logical argument, many facts – and never before has one´s widest map which explains one´s existence been so universal meaning there is no “us vs. them” in it. It´s truly a cosmopolitan universal identity many times more complex than any old national/historical/religious context/map/identity. The upside of it is that having it as the context one lives in and which explains one´s existence is a step in a more advanced, more peaceful, more universal direction.
God: I put that map there to be found by anyone who uses rationality to go through the steps taken in this universal sequence of rational conclusions following one another. Whenever one has reasoned one´s way to that Reality is infinite, it follows that if size is infinite then that´s one pillar/foundation/idea in an existential theory. This hints that there is a theory which explains the time-axis too, and a theory for why there is something rather than nothing filling the infinite square size-time-diagram. Once one has all three pillars to the existential theory, that sculpture should predict the advent of a reproducing piece of mass such as a DNA-strand. Size being infinite doesn´t explain the chronology from the Big Bang to the emptying universe, nor does it explain why there is something rather than nothing. An infinite size-range explains a third of what´s needed for a complete existential theory, so for now we´re assuming there is a sensical chronology to the history of the Big Bang and an explanation how nothing can summon everything in the size-range. The existential theory (the theory that answers: “why do we exist?”) rests on three pillars out of which the infinity of the size-range is one. Assuming two pillars (a pillar is a foundational idea on which the answers to all above questions sits – once all three pillars are in place the entirety of our Context (where and why we live our lives) is understood. Having all three pillars derived logically – like we did the infinite size-range-pillar – will be the universal Theory of Everything.
Darwin: The change of one´s grandest context is going quickly: for millions of years it was one´s family/tribe, then it became one´s ruler/nation/religion, then we went through a few -isms which were trying to dominate the whole world – capitalism winning throughout most of the world, yesterday people´s grandest context was either their bronze-age religion based on unfounded beliefs, or an incomplete science. Today it is a three-pillared existential theory which completes science by answering the large-scale chronology of the infinite time-axis and why the size-range is filled rather than empty. These three pillars taken together then predicts a world – not our world in particular but first a reproducing shape (a DNA-strand) and further on a universal world-view with pitfalls for the mind. The Grand Contexts (which explained one´s life) of nation, religion or -ism all had one thing incommon: logic (in the theory/context) wasn´t a pitfall for the mind. It´s a paradigm-shift to identify as an entity in a context that makes sense, requires a lot of logic and that our brain wasn´t adapted for (and thus the logic has pitfalls for the mind).
God: But after the world undergoes this paradigm-shift from mysterious and/or simple Grand Contexts like nation or religion, there won´t be any more paradigm-shifts in one´s identity coming: logic is the final solution – the lasting identity. Guess why 99.999999% of the planets within my infinite space has this paradigm-shifting three-pillared existential theory/Grand Context-mental map? It´s because it only takes one person to invent/discover it, and then it will spread and spread – and once a human has learned the true existential theory/”location of one´s life in the grand scheme of things”, it´s impossible to revert back to some context-map that lacks pitfalls that Darwin explains but also lacks explanatory value and a scientific vibe. It´s inevitable for advancing civilizations to walk God´s path of rationality until the brain evolved for tribe/nation/religion re-wires itself to adapt to a map/grand context/existential theory/reason for its existence consisting of logic, universal God´s sequences of thoughts with pitfalls for the mind. For millions of years we´ve had no pitfalls for the mind in our grand context-maps, nor have we had thorough explanations to why we´re here. Still 90% of the world´s population believes in a pitfall-free dogma- and ritual-based grand contexts – and bind to groups based on them (which will be a problem once the world starts to decline) – with mystery instead of logic because of our natural Grand Context being tribe/nation/religion. 99.999999% of civilizations across infinite space has the scientific rational map despite all its pitfalls (that are due to evolution wanting tribe/nation/religion as the Grand Context). We have millions if not billions of years left to live on earth – of course the Grand Context/existential theory founded on certain truth and built by rationality will outlive bronze-age pseudo-explanations to why we exist. The current world religions offer no explanatory value but they satisfy the mind´s need for a Grand Context by speaking about mysteries not meant to be understood, or unprovable statements that contradict the three-pillared built-from-certain-truth map which, unlike religions, is universal instead of dangerously “us vs. them”-mentality-creating. We should start turning down the heaters to reduce global carbon emissions, but instead we´re building up for war because of the “us vs. them”-mentality-creating nature of bronze-age Grand Contexts that satisfy but don´t explain, that dictate and order around but offer no logic/rationality, that say “don´t understand that – it´s a mystery” instead of “here´s the explanation but your evolved mind will find it to be a pitfall”.
Plato: do you think that a person who is a fresh slate and given the two options – modern truth or bronze-age religion – and fully understood both options, would rather take the religious choice because it requires no thinking for yourself (instead it offers very clear rituals and dictates), contains mysteries (like a talking God who gives revelations such as “don´t eat pork”) instead of logic with logic´s inevitable pitfalls for the mind (such as that it´s hard to comprehend an infinite size-range being just one pillar out of three in an existential theory that deals with Big Bang and evolution)? Also, religions offer unfounded carrots at the end of the road: you get to heaven after you die.
Socrates: I think it´s hard to choose the untruth once you know the truth. But while your mind is firmly planted in untruth it´s certainly as comfortable as a con-man´s gentle voice. Truth and rationality demand you pause and verify based on your own logic; mystery can be as easily held onto as it is comforting that, say, one is being taken care of by a God which is not an infinite uncaring sizerange, but instead somekind of willing mind that interferes with his Creation through mysteries (which beg you do not even try to understand them, unlike logic which takes effort to comprehend). The battle between the paradigm-shifting three-pillared existential theory and the bronze-age religions reveal the grandest of all pitfalls for the mind: we are, due to having lived so for millions of years, inclined toward: getting a clear list of orders and rules to obey to get a mysterious pleasant gift at the end of the road; being told that the rationale through which Creation spawns is a mystery, yet satisfying one´s thirst for an answer that can bind the group together by having “…in 6 days.” as a to-be-remembered part of the creation story / existential theory. That covers rituals and dogmas. We´ve had language for hunderds of thousands of years and science for a few hundred years – most talk ever produced ordered people around (rituals) and gave a Grand Context which could unite a group and give an “us vs. them”-attitude (dogmas). Science and logic has lead to a world-view which lacks rituals, causes as much group-cohesion and “us vs. them”-mentality as knowing math, contains ideas and rationales which are pitfalls for the mind – tasks we are barely fit to accomplish, and we accomplish them uncomfortably (we´d prefer a mystery where we can be lazy and not even try to understand it). 99.9999999% of planets have this ritual-lacking pitfall-full logically exhausing non-mysterious “think for yourself” dogma-free Grand Context for their lives because the history of a planet is so very long – we are only halfway through our earth´s history. But we better hurry up in spreading the truth based on logic because religion causes large-scale grouping (“us vs. them”-mentalities in vast groups of people) which causes wars against other groups. These wars, with exceptions for Afghanistan, Syria, Iraq and Libya are rare now because of uninterrupted economic growth, but when an economic decline, global warming or peak oil makes people feel hopeless and futureless, they´ll use their holy book-based group-bond to cause trouble – and trouble is bigger when the group is big; religion has always been a tool for making the group as big as possible. When group-binding over holy books is gone, it´s safer to have an economic decline because humans won´t have a group-mentality build in as enormous a flocks of people as religion has group-mentality build in today. The only way to get rid of large-scale uniform groups i.e. religions is to appeal to people´s reasoning. Starting from certain truth, etc…
Plato: So until we get the rational intellectual tradition to take over in the world, we´ll propably have a slow simmer of smaller wars where group-bonding is based on different interpretations of holy books – even though the current refugee crysis from Syria/Iraq is the biggest flow of refugees in a century, it´s still small potatoes compared to what´s coming if global warming, peak oil or an economic crysis hits: then we´ll regret that we didn´t do everything in our power to prevent large-scale group-bonding because a large war is worse than a small war. Once cities start drowing because of sea-level rise, or oil prices rise due to us having burned all of it, people will be desperate to survive and we´ll see them bind together based on some principle / anything incommon – and I´m sure it will be religion.
Plato: What would the case be if everyone dropped religion and instead took everything they needed from the logical existential theory?
Socrates: Well, the italians wouldn´t fight the french. Nationhood is no longer a legitimate-enough binder. Family-ties, acuaintances and friends… It´ll be wars between two tiny neighbouring villages, but multiplied all-over the world.
Author
yonis
Posted on
15/03/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Plato and Socrates, God and Darwin
Am I a muslim?
Am I a muslim?
I have my size-time-diagram into which everything fits and this diagram being infinite gives an existential theory because:
– sizes justify (are the cause of) one another, so there´s infinite justification.
– time is infinite and our universe is observed to become nothingness in the future, and nothingness would be absurd if not for the fact that in the smallest spaces energymass is summoned because E=mc2 is a stable, constant law of nature.
– there can only be separate distinct entities if distinction is counter-balanced and happens in non-distinction (a singular Reality). This point is much like the previous point of that only in nothingness can somethingness be summoned.
God, then, if we are to look for a meaning for the word, cannot be:
– a specific object, size nor time within something infinitely larger
– cannot, by definition, be apart from and “beyond” [that of which all is part] (Reality). Reality being an infinite size- and time-range of energymasspacetime is enough of an existential theory to explain us being here, the Big Bang, and the rest of the questions. God would, if claimed to be “beyond” the existential theory, be an unnecessary unproven assumption but more to the point: God would be “unreal” if Reality is defined as we define it here. Such “beyond Reality”-gods are unreal. What´s more is that the phrase “Allah akbar” (God is the biggest/greatest) wouldn´t be true if Reality/[that of which all is part] is God plus Reality – if [that of which all is part] has two major components, God and an energymasspacetime sizerange etc (the existential theory), then the sum of those two components is greater than God.
God, thus, obviously means Reallity by the definition of God being the greatest. God is then infinite. It makes sense to see people in awe over how much they can study, when they know there´s infinitely many fields of science which we do not have access to but which are logical and necessities for Reality to hold together. There being nothing absurd in an infinite size-range that resembles our known size-range (from quantum physics to the visible universe) is awesome and the highest you could possibly worship. This again proves that God is just a synonym for Reality/the existential theory.
Having studied all fields of science i.e. all sizes is the known sizerange, seeing how they all make up (justify) eachother (that it´s just zooming in and zooming out), the wisdom that the sizerange is infinite (that there are infinitely many sizes making up one another) from the distinction (I think & I am logical path) and anti-distinction (that Reality is one) -thing, is the reason why we exist and God is not some size (sizes are not minds, except through evolution). Having studied all known sizes and knowing that the sizerange is infinite: it is an explanation to why we´re here (akin to the Adam and Eve story or “God created earth in 6 days” story) but it is not a revalation-giving thing – the Quran wasn´t written by God because God is not the kind of thing that writes/dictates stories. God being an infinite sizerange as thus our Creator is true, but the true way to get knowledge, rituals/pictoral representations and even guidance is through my work, not the work of the holy book-writers. The holy book writers might have said something true about God (just like I do in my work) – but that is true of science textbooks moreso – and they all said false things such as that God talks/gives revalations/authors holy books.
I can see the bronze-age marketing-team´s standpoint: people are more prone to follow dictates if they´re said to come from something/someone “higher than human” i.e. a God or a ghost/spirit. Being invisible in as nonsense-a-way as some rituals are, is great for marketing. Everyone knows how humans thing – they´re themselves human; we are only partly rational (a computer is rational) in what we think – all our animal lusts bias or interrupt the thoughts that are as logical as they get, but they´re always going to be based against an evolutionary background just like the pitfall that my abstract diagram-including infinity-mentioning world-view is more like algebra than “what a world-view (context in which we are) should be thinking about that we lived for millions of years on the savannah, only needing to know (in one´s world-view) where the water-source is or whom stands under whom in the social hierarchy. We´ve mapped geographies, the use-based properties of objects/tools and personalities (and still do) for a gazillion years – only with the advent of science SOME of us achieved higher i.e. used their evolved meager toolkit with all its biases to scetch out something like the theory of evolution in the 1800s. Looking at the evolution of [what we use our memory for]/how we map our surroundings/our world-view, before we mapped social relationships we mapped geographies. Before we mapped the functions of inventions (tools) our map only contained caveman tools (sharp stones and spears). The next step is to map one´s context as an infinite size-time-diagram (where size and time are really the same, but abstract thinking allows us to separate them into two distinct axises) or energymasspacetime (with its´ many laws of nature found in every school textbook in the world) and the distinction-antidistinction-
thing which feels so awkward/abstract that one wonders why one needs it as pillar 3 of the existential theory: the answer is: it wasn´t invented (the words “I see a distinct object” or “why is there distinction?” weren´t said in the same breath as “Reality is one” or “energymass and spacetime unite”) until I did it in the 21st century). It might seem trivial to mention that separate entities exist in a singular Reality – it´s so obvious (that´s why no-one cared to make a big fuzz out of inventing it) but it makes the existential theory have three pillars (all of which can seem obvious) and not 4 – there´s nothing more to add to the existential theory once you´ve added the obvious “separation in antidistinction”-statement. I want to know how aliens (the infinitely many of them, steered by science toward an incommon path) think because its synonymous to finding a TRUE “key to history” (Marx thought the key was equality, Hitler thought the key was racial superiority and a brutally competative relationship between races, Capitalism thinks it´s freedom (less government), some might think they “key to history” is to fund technological development). “How aliens think” is a shorthand way of saying “the key to history” or “what will happen next/eventually and in hindsight seen as akin to the era of ancient grecoroman culture, the Industrial Revolution or the Digital revolution)”. It´s what we´re steered towards; it´s the closest thing we get to divine guidance. It´s simply universal (drawn on science and practiced by infinitely many aliens) guidance/suggestions/
recommendations that we, as a species, can choose to promogate and thus “follow” or if we´ll stick to multiculturalism´s many -ism´s like political quran-based islamism or christian-based “the holy book gave me this”-morality and codes of conduct. Some -ism´s are dangerous (like quran-based politics and law) while some -ism´s like christianity give too much credit to the -ism for simple human decency (in an age of extreme wealth globally). When my tummy is full I´m a decent person – I try to make money but I´m not desparate after extreme wealth because I know that my caveman-brain´s “need” for power (through status-symbols and freedom of space my environment to maximize the effectiveness of my hobby (writing)) won´t get satisfied no matter what external extravaganzas trigger my eyeballs, nor can people (socializing) make me much more satisfied than I am right now because all that is interesting and that there is to people is their brain – and after a few weeks together there´ll be nothing I know nor any mental tool that I use that won´t, despite copyright, be in the hands of my friend: we won´t talk science (me teaching him/her) after all the science has been taught. I don´t care to teach trivia so when I say “I teach SCIENCE” I mean a finite thing: the existential theory plus something from each level of the known sizerange. Getting a P.hD from specializing on finding the structure of a rare protein only found in the feet of Amazonian forrest-mice is to put your eyes too close to the diagram; P.hDs for specializing/having a very narrow topic for one´s mind to engage in are for people who don´t see the forest for the trees and care to rather look at one leaf of one tree instead of thinking about and seeing the forest as a whole. I´m a forest person – a leaf 10 cm from my eyes just bugs me. That´s why there is a finite repertoire to what I call “science” – it takes a few days for me (my accomplishment/my work) to be fully understood and if repeated repetative. One only needs to know why/where one exists (the existential theory) once – one can´t forget it because we are made to remember the very context in which we live (here an evolutionary bias helps us: when someone explains “what the world is” we remember it because “what the world was” in caveman days was the most useful thing the brain could do – in fact we evolved such large brains because bigger brains remember better (can moreso map social relationships, successfull or unsuccesfull learning-experiences). We want to climb upwards in the hierarchy, find a mate, etc but all these wants and needs would be useless (they´d having nothing to work on) if it weren´t for the map (of social relationships etc) that our brain is capable of remembering. We are inclined to remember existential theories because such knowledge about our place in the context was as useful as mapping whom is married to whom. This bias, by the way, is something holy book writers used to get people interested in their book. “God created earth in 6 days (not 5)” is memorable because of our bias toward wanting to know about “creation of the world” – so the number “6 days” is remembered too because it adds to the map that we then work on to seek power and other evolutionary benefits. It´s hard to make plans that have one reach evolutionary benefits if one does not know one´s environment/the external world. “6 days for creating this place/world” adds to one´s map of the environment/place/external world. We have a bias for remembering it. Too bad the bronze-age holy books used this marketing trick (“hey, let´s say something about their world (like the creation of it) because that would be something they remember!”) to give pseudo- existential theories. The holy books made sales because not only do people want information about their context, people also want God to talk and interfere with day-to-day personal activites. Once you have a pseudo-explanation for how/why the world was created, you´re free to add to that pseudo-explanation that “the creator talks”. It´s impossible to add such a talking thing to my existential theory – not only is it unnecessary (my theory works stand-alone) but it also contradicts basically every concept of my existential theory. The very definitions of energymasspacetime (meaning that God had nothingness as the canvas to paint on – a nothingness that needs energymass and summons it because of the laws of nature inherent in that nothingness – and chose to paint a beginning with as-dense-as-can-be (just like E=mc2 would´ve created it because E=mc2 is true in the smallest spaces). Where was God when this happened? Couldn´t have been energymass because energymass is only summoned once the universe becomes pure nothingness. If God is not energymass and energymass is existence – then God doesn´t exist / God is nothing. What doesn´t exist or is nothing doesn´t give revalations to men, doesn´t care whom you sleep with, etc. Is God or God´s heaven a location in our size of infinite spacetime? In that case God is simply a far-away alien (which warrants questions about its evolution) but again – it doesn´t talk to us because of the distance and we wouldn´t be too impressed even if an evolved God did talk to us (we are quite like it – our science is the same, our world-view is the same). God is not a location in a size but is God a size? The sizerange is infinite (as proven by distinction not being able to see antidistinction) and that´d mean that there´s a creator to God (and that thing too has a creator, ad infinitum) IN THE SAME WAY as humans built cities or atoms make molecules. Again, if God is a size it warrant´s the question: is God every location of that size or is God, like humans, in a location of that size? Whatever be the case, God still couldn´t communicate with us. Since God fits neither in the context of energymasspacetime nor the context of the sizerange, a God-theory absolutely contradicts the true theory. What is said about God – that God is the greatest – makes only one “location”/notion in the existential theory correspond to a non-talking uncaring God: the theory itself (and more precisely Reality/[that of which all is part]) is the greatest. It certainly doesn´t hear/talk nor give revalations because it comes as an infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime. When you tell this science, you can get to the point where you define Reality as “that of which all is part” and the greatest – you can even get to antidistinction/the unrepresentability of Reality (fully, because we do represent some things) and people might still hope that a talking God can exist. But as soon as you mention the less abstract (the more abstract was that [that of which all is part cannot be observed]), the God-theory either surrenders or is in conflict with a/the existential theory which certainly is true (anyone can verify how the components of the theory fit together, make sense and explain everything). God as a synonym for Reality is boring – why do we even have two words if we mean the same (scientific sizerange) thing.
If you assume that God is a synonym for Reality (which comes as an infinite sizescale, which in turn predicts a DNA-strand somewhere and voila: everything is explained), then I believe in your God. It doesn´t appriciate my appriciation of it though, nor do rituals, following rules (made by men) etc please it. If I am to “show my appriciation to it” I do it by writing as I do right now – that´s my worship of it: but I´m under no illusion that this writing would please God by being logical (eventhough Reality itself is logical too – so we have something incommon) – me writing can be called worship but the only appriciating recipients of my writing are me and readers of my text. Whatever I write about Reality/God doesn´t please God (because God is not a thing that listens, likes worship by others and other human needs) – whatever worshippers do, I hope they do it for themselves and for other humans because no-one else is able to care or comprehend the worship. I would do the muslim prayer if I felt that that kind of discipline would benefit me (and a few times I did get a good feeling from going to the mosque and being among worshippers). It´s so easy to adapt to the customs of one´s peers (and especially one´s superiors, if one believes that there are those) that my attitude toward worship/ritual is “when in Rome, do like the romans (if you or others gain something out of it)”. The world is complex – I could have the same attitude toward the beliefs of islam: that I´ll just say that something is through eventhough it obviously isn´t because it contradicts, say, a talking holy book-writing God. Could I make myself believe that something talkative is God? The belief disintegrates and I get the foul feeling of that I´ve used my valuable memory to note down a lie everytime I would think just one step/association further from the belief itself. I can believe (in anything) but analyzing it even the smallest amount will make me disbelieve it. But when you´re in the mood of not analyzing – like when one is having a panic attack on one´s death-bed – I´ll be (extremely) simplistic and do what some people seem to always do: “believe (in something that breaks down when analyzed)”. What confuses me is that some people believe all the time – they seem perfectly sane but they believe in a talking, scripture-giving God (that doesn´t fit anywhere in the existential theory). Do they need comfort (from untruth) all the time? It seems like they´re trying to argue their position, though. A perplexing phenomenon at first glance but when you consider that they´re uneducated about my existential theory, any theory will do (even a talking God-theory). I am not hateful of it when I see it in other people – I see it as humorous/ridicilous – but when it binds people together (to form what in essence is an army) and there´s many of them (10 000 religions/”armies”) the world´s got a problem. Binding people together through their shared scripture and their belief that something impossible is true is bad because groups tend to be more violent than individualists – especially if their holy text 1) seems to bind billions of people to their army (morale-strength amplification in a group is the root of violence), and 2) preaches violence/disrespect (many holy books are xenophobic and eager to create an “us vs. them”-social dynamic). If the holy book is taken seriously (if it can´t be thrown in the trash) then we have bronze-age xenophobia (based on who likes the book and who doesn´t) creeping into the modern day, and we also have artificial bonding/loyalty – we basically get groups who are hostile (or more disrespectful) toward anyone who doesn´t see the point (“there´s a talking God”) they´re promoting. It´s such an easily fixable problem: if you read my work you simply cannot believe in a talking God – my professional role is that you can give me ANY individual and I can “convert” him/her into not believing in a talking God. Whether this person will follow his or her group´s rituals or codes of conduct, though, is up to them – it´s sheer peer pressure.
The “us vs. them” “we are a big group” (and especially) “we should convert the whole world so that they use their precious memory for knowing nonsense like we do” are such great reasons for violence – and of course it´s fixable because what these people lack is education: only where there is no theory, can a pseudo-theory take root. Only where there is no argument/debate/science can “God talks” seem like legitimate truth. This means that much of the world´s violence is due to a lack of education (about the big questions i.e. what I talk about). Sure: some religions can be interpreted to say “kill the infidels” or some other explicit declaration of war – but it´s hard for a religion to survive if it constantly preaces fighting (it must have more clever tactics than that – but it does tend to seek world-dominion). I´m not so worried that someone reads the Quran and thinks “I´ll help the [unbelieves in the Quran´s talking God] to get to hell faster, because the Quran says that that´s where they belong”. I am worried about that the Quran (or any holy book) is the glue that binds people together. Religion is the last glue before we enter an era where obviously arbitrary things like nationalism or language makes strangers feel more familiar with eachother. Nation and language aren´t taken that seriously – nor should religion be, but it is. This binding-effect that holy books have is what makes ISIS / the taliban etc so hard to defeat – they think, not only that they have an all-seeing revalation-giving God on their side, but they also have the exact same copy of a book that a billion people have. They feel strong (with their, seemingly to them, superior numbers). Obviously ISIS underestimated the ability of the Quran to draw in arab nations into the fight over Iraq & Syria – the modern world simply leaned on the fact that ISIS are not muslims because they interpret the bronze-age ramble wrong. But ISIS / the taliban is still a factor – the quran binds too many people together in certain areas of the world – violence is caused, due to the binding-effect, the “moral superiority”-effect, the “power in numbers and billions of people read the Quran”-effect etc (all these effects are there even if you skip the parts about the talking God who word for word said the Quran) make men as prone to violence as anything can make them: they´re a group with an “us vs. them” dogma & feeling and they feel like they have power in numbers. Add to that the frustration over having to finance an own home before one can ejaculate. Those circumstances can make the group take up arms and “send the infidels where they belong”. Following the commandments frustrates, the whole notion of “let´s all prioritize this text highest (our favorite book) so that we´re bound together” and that the text itself can be interpreted as violent all are a breeding-ground for trouble – and when you´re in the trouble that the text creates, you are not in the state of mind to do the internal debate necessary to disprove a talking God and thus make your whole way of life become something that you either do as meaningless fun or don´t do because no-one cares. But just as some people want to become professional soccer players and some atheists do zen-meditation, humans (by personal preference) want hobbies, to take up a discipline, to do something that adds, say, pride to their life. I don´t personally care about soccer and I don´t feel pride from doing any ritual, but I can definitely see that others take the muslim prayers like an athlete takes their sport. It´s possible to find out the objective truth about whether these prayers “please God or not” (by, like I´ve done in this text, disproving all kinds of false Gods and making the real God more mundane and not a talker). Rituals don´t please Reality/”the energymasspacetime sizerange” because it is not a thing that gets pleased – it´s like trying to please a rock. You do the prayers because you enjoy the pride/hobby for its own sake – like someone doing sports likes his/her sport. Pleasing a rock/God to get to a “heaven” (which too doesn´t fit into the true existential theory) is stupid unless it´s akin to a hobby/sport where you do it for doing it´s sake. Same thing with the “heaven hates ham”-thing – when you know enough science (enough = what I´ve written so far in this text) you´ll realize that the whole ham-prohibition is man-made (from the bronze age) and linked to some pre-scientific nonsense from-the-horse´s-mouth-
statement (can´t say rationale because it´s dogma). If you (and secondarily your peers) are dedicated to nonsense (whether it be sports, stamp-collecting, memorizing capitals or not eating pork), then do it if it does something good like prove to yourself (and others) that you have a strong discipline (even though your effort is misdirected toward nonsense). I can invent a ritual and do it every day, and maybe I´d feel pride over that I can keep to a schedule of nonsense, but I would never claim the theory that there is a talking God, and by extention I wouldn´t say that that ficticious talker prohibited ham. The mundane action must be differentiated from the logical argument. Ham-prohibitions and talking Gods are artifacts that belong in the past – modern white A4-paper is too beautiful for someone to write something as erroneous as “there is a talking God” on it. But as I´m writing this, people are dying because religion binds them together (and frustrates them, and boosts their war-morale in many ways). My work can cause a civil war within ISIS – a civil rift so permiating that only family ties, friendships and common goals (to get money, not to spread islam) can keep people together in groups. Once my existential theory is known there will still be crime and instability in Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan, but the evil deeds will only be committed by groups of 2-3 people – not 20 000 of them. The binding effect of the Quran can most clearly be seen in that internet-propaganda made Quran-readers from the USA and Europe go fight in Syria – everyone wants a group and it´s totally human to assume that knowing the same book will be enough for a bond to be as strong as one wants it to be.
Right now “my work” is 9 proper texts and a few videos. They all talk about the same thing (which can be formulated as: I´ll say as much as I can about things I´ve never heard anyone else say (and I´ve seen the best professors in the world teaching truths)). To cause a rift in the taliban/ISIS and stop the war by making group-bonding (around a holy book) problematic/impossible, my whole “work” doesn´t need to be dropped as propaganda books on top of ISIS and the taliban. It´s enough that the news headlines say that “a correct all-explaining existential theory has been found – religions in crysis” or that enough people know my theory so that a multitude of youtube videos are made where, in a sentence or two, the presenter goes off-topic and mentions why we exist / something from my theory. Having understood it once makes it impossible to forget – having understood it once makes group-bonding over religion (which fuels ISIS/the taliban/etc) impossible. If the world could just take 20 minutes of its´ time to spend on explaining/teaching/arguing my work/theory, then the war on terror would be over – otherwise it will persist as long as people have no actual, logical theory about their existence and thus believe in bronze-age marketing tricks.
Author
yonis
Posted on
13/03/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Am I a muslim?
Pitfalls of the mind
Pitfalls of the Mind
The toolkit – our brain – has never before in history gotten any evolutionary benefits from contemplating the topics contemplated in this book. The toolkit is not made for what we use it for. For example, since the arguments/proofs and conclusions in this book are long (as you´d except from 21st century science), the brain starts fidgeting impatiently because it wants concrete plans (instead of abstract series of logic) that lead fo a clear outcome. This book, or rather the impact of it being popularized, will have a clear outcome: it will remove, educate and unite – it will remove the possibility of the bronze-age-style God that gives revalations and chooses sides in wars, this book will educate about the most important topic (the big questions of life) giving everyone an incommon smallest demoninator, and since our intellectual cultures coelesce into one universal world-view it will unite us (cause more of a sense of friendship) globally. I don´t know which one is more important a consequence of teaching the universal curriculum with its universal idea: that religious wars end (religion no longer gives fighting-spirit/morale to jihadists once the Quran has proven to be an impossibly farfetched appendix to the minimalist theory that is science/this book), or is it more important that I know your analytical toolkit and the approximate knowledge-repertoire which you draw from – nay: I know the Big Picture: my work only deals with the interdisciniplary most meta grandest broad-view topics – those everyone will have incommon while, of course, the level of detail of one´s knowledge when zooming in into the overarching diagram (upon which everyone agrees) differs from person to person (but is rather insignificant since the broad-theme that my work has already answers all questions except practial such (like how to build a fridge). My work answers which diagram the universe has every planet (there are infinitely many planets) race toward (the size-time-diagram) and the universe also speaks the linguistic definitions, refinements and footnotes to the visuals so much so that they´re the same on other planets. From this we know how/why the Big Bang started and how it ends as it started: in/as nothingness (with E=mc2 being true in the smallest spaces). We know that the sizerange is infinite because of the distinction-antidistinction-
opposition. This is one pitfall for the mind: distinction (between thinker and thought is merely the notion that they are distinct/separate – you can´t move around distinction or touch distinction: it´s an abstract notion. Same goes for anti-distinction (distinction´s opposite) which is even harder to grasp because it´s synonymous with “that of which all is part”/the one all-encompassing grandest singular Reality. So two abstract notions, distinction and anti-distinction, unite but first chooses us to one team: representers/representation is distinction. When we represent we are distinct and thus cannot represent anti-distinction. A caveat to this is that our representations, inability to see anti-distinction/Reality, etc are all phenomena in Reality – so really both teams picked us: we are in the distinction-realm and in the anti-distinction realm but in different ways: eventhough we are in anti-distinction we do not see our world as anti-distinction (we see separate entities, not all as one). All is one but we don´t see it that way. So we are in both realms/teams but in one we´re blind toward the anti-distinct nature of our surroundings/that team, and being in the other team means we see distinction (distinct entities) but we don´t see the opposite of distinction: Reality (that one of which all is part).
Having an opposition (distinction-antidistinction-
opposition) in which we exist in both opposing sides simultaneously, and both sides being abstract notions (instead of concrete) is something very unusual to think about considering the long stretches of time during which the brain evolved. We never became good at pitting two abstract things against eachother, choosing to be in both of them even though they´re opposites, and then not seeing one of them (that of which all is part; anti-distinction) with the caveat that we´re not really seeing distinction either: distinction is not a noun that you can touch. Reading science-fiction novels is easy while reading my work prompts you to pause to think about what my point is or what a sentence means – but then again you read science-fiction novels and my work for different purposes: my work ends wars (by proving, for sure, that God doesn´t fit into my work´s model except as a synonym for Reality, and as a synonym for Reality it doesn´t give revalations like hating ham (instead it´s an infinite size-range with infinitely many consequetive Big Bangs of energymasspacetime…, meaning it´s about as much unlike a mind (“a jelous God”) as you could possible get). Understanding my work will, by very simple associations from my work to religion, push religions through an enlightenment/reneissance; the religious become moderates since my work makes belief/faith harder to uphold against the force of logical proof/my work. They say that even doubting (having doubts in one´s faith in God) is a religious phenomenon – well, my work is an explanation which leaves no question unanswered and which doesn´t need God – and in addition, since my work draws a size-time-diagram and proves that it is infinite, there is no space/room for God to be in. You can conform religion to fit my scientific framework/model by making God synonymous with Reality, but this is not how the founders of the religion wanted their invention to be marketed/believed in. Bronze-age charlatans needed a “mind outside the size-time-diagram, which gives certain self-appointed chosen men power/revalations” – a mind “outside” spacetime (spacetime being defined as all outsideness too since it´s all of space and infinite) not only is an unnecessary addition to my model (it would deviate this minimalist theory into something that adds unnecessary additions), but a talking, miracle-making etc God uglifies the theory. An Picasso or an architect does not let his 4-year old kid go loose with the crayons on the painting/blueprint – likewise we don´t need the religious to add bronze-age semi-ideas to a modern model.
Speaking of pitfalls for the mind and religion: all religions seem to have a 1-idea starting-point existential theory. “Why do we exist?” The answer never begins with “let me list three equally important concepts as starting points to the explanation and which intertwine later in the story, cooperating and amplifying one another…” All religious answers to “why do we exist?” begin with one idea each: either “God created earth” or “the world came forth from an egg”, etc. Having a 3-pillared existential theory is modern, complex and takes use of abstract thinking (rather than story-telling sagas). Humans are story-tellers: very rarely in evolution did we have the need to explain something in a scientific way. If some explanation (like the existential theory´s) doesn´t have the format of a story, our evolved mind finds it unusual (and more boring).
The existential theory´s three pillars/sub-ideas, however, (infinite sizerange of energymasspacetime and distinction-antidistinction-
opposition) cannot be refined/summarized further. It´s not enough of a challenge to our evolved mind that the three sub-ideas themselves contain notions like infinity, size as a range/axis (diagram), 1 and 0 (something and nothing; energymass and spacetime) intertwined as a single word, and then the opposition between distinction and anti-distinction. The existential theory predicts that there should be infinitely many sizes and times, and since we can draw a size-time-diagram (because every possible object has a size and a time – again warranting the question: where, in this, is God?) the pitfall for the mind comes from that space (size) and time obviously are intertwined/connected/one. We´ve taken one thing (spacetime) and derived size from space and then divided size-time into two perpendicular axises. This is useful because it lets us show every field of science (every object) on a single 2-axis diagram, but the pitfall comes from that we must linguistically add the footnote that this diagram is an abstraction (visual abstraction) because the two axises are really connected just as size and time are. Now, not only are we dealing with abstract linguistic words, assocations and conclusions but even our visuals have become abstract. When in evolution did we need abstract visuals? Never. It took until the 1600s before the basic coordinate system was invented.
Speaking of abstract words leading to abstract visuals: distinction-antidistinction-
opposition (the fact that there are separate objects in one world) is the lead-up to a conclusion, the conclusion being that nothing can represent (due to the fundamental truth that representation is distinction no matter if brains are involved or not; who defines or if someone defines an event as a “representation” doesn´t matter – that´s how vaguely/loosely Reality itself defines the notion “to represent” – but even with this lax definition of what represents what, whatever cannot represent “that of which all is part”/Reality/anti-distinction because distinction and anti-distinction are opposites. This is abstract argument/reasoning and it too is something we never had to deal with during caveman days – it is uniquely modern and thus perplexing to the expectations (that the brain got from evolution) of the brain. The abstract argument about distinction-antidistinction-
opposition, however, leads to a conclusion: there is infinitely much to Reality (because representation (and hypothesising about the infinitely large) is possible). The visual way of drawing this conclusion is to acknowledge that everything must have a size- and a time-value – these become two coordinates (y, x) which, like we said, are only disunited for clarity and in the abstract: in reality size and time are together. Ergo: if size is infinite then time is infinite – but something here is infinite because we can represent whatever (or rather: representation can occur (without a brain – this is how loosely the universe defines “representation”) and no representation is (all there is to) Reality, and every object in Reality has a size and a time, and size and time are united, meaning size and time are infinite. In the visual representation of this conclusion we can draw a square (two axis, size and time) with infinity symbols all around the square. This is a drawing derived from firmly established science and it could be made into a tattoo or T-shirt logo, meaning other planets draw it too (the byproduct of proving that size is infinitely large is that one simultaneously proves that there are infinitely many locations of the human size – there are infinitely many planets with water… Infinity means that there are more humans sitting on the same science (and most interestingly: the same picture we just drew). It´s universal – like what revalations claimed to be but weren´t.
Our logical step-by-step reasoning is something modern, but luckily our evolved toolkit has a word/function very much alike what´s needed to understand my work. The upshot is that evolution gave us the word “then” – and if, in a story (which is what we evolved to hear instead of abstract argument) one can imagine scenario two (after “then”) as following from movement/re-arrangement of scenario one (before “then”), then we consider the transition between one and two possible/truthful assuming the story-teller is not lying. “Then” is what connects two notions or sequences of logic or bits of argument to a conclusion. The downside of having this kind of story-teller-based system is that we expect the conclusion to be worthwhile hearing – we expect it to be worthwhile hearing not for some grand cause like ending religious wars, disproving ISIS´ God in argument, making people more friendly toward one another by everyone having the same incommon denominator (alike world-views), or dragging civilization forward like Einstein did – no: we expect a conclusion that triggers our monkey-based emotional repertoire. We are wired so that we can logically think it´s all well and good that my work can end wars, bring people closed and push civilization to advance – but it´s so modern that we don´t get a primitive emotional response from those conclusions/outcomes. I personally feel the honor of doing something hard, modern and good. We are wired so that: if the understanding of my work would magically make your favorite fruit appear so you could eat it, you´d moreso feel that my work was worthwhile reading than if you are helping in all these modern abstract endevours like driving civilization forward. “Monkey want banana” is the toolkit we´re working with and “you´re helping advance civilization and overcome a thousands of years old tradition of superstition that leads to theocracy and war” isn´t as rewarding/intruiging and simply getting a banana. We want simple, quick, straight-forward rewards instead of things that are hard to understand because they´re so complex; simple, eatable and predictable is safe while grand and unfamiliar to our evolved toolkit feels unsafe and like venturing into the dark.
Another pitfall for the mind is that the evolutionary narrative is too long: there is a too long of a sequence of steps leading to steps. During millions of years stories were not that long without involving some intrigue, witches, murder, gold treasures and other interesting things. The evolutionary narrative is explanatory rather than exciting and interesting – and the evolved mind might take all of evolution as a joke because it hears a long long narrative of step leading to step but then the conclusion – the end of the story – is that we “are here today”. It´s a 2-hour talk to say the obvious: that we are here. This is a pitfall because of the high-investment of time and listening-effort and the low reward of knowing that one is here.
Another pitfall is that I argue that it is a moral good to imitate (the infinitely many) aliens WHOM WE WILL NEVER SEE. Since we have to always adapt our modern projects (including our morality) to our toolkit´s evolved nature, there are two arguments that produce a moral philosophy:
1) Peer-pressure light-years away: eventhough we´ll never meet the aliens we know that they know/read/teach universal texts/pictures (like I do in my work); if they have any appriciation for knowing where they are, how they came to be, how the brain works, etc (the big questions of life which, if you know the answers to them, you can lead a better life). We didn´t evolve to feel peer-pressure from light-years away so another way of saying the exact same thing, which sounds as religious as I´ll ever get, is:
2) the universe/Reality/science steers all planets toward the same world-view (including the same morality). Science is like a river or currant and through some work (learning/teaching/inventing) we can float and drift in the same direction as the river. If we insist on breaking away from the natural course of the river by being unscientific, we´ll propably reak havoc on ourselves because that´s synonymous to being irrational. By being rational one floats with the river. All planets realize this and choose to float with the river because rationality has given us infinitely much more than any bronze-age cult. The pitfall is that we evolved to feel peer-pressure and adapt to peers and celebrities on TV – if the culture is wrong (unscientific, like the TV is today) then it is very hard to float or even swim along the universe´s currant because ever since wolves and monkeys we´ve been in the “monkey see, monkey do”-mode. We live the era when only rebels can float with the universal current (because they know it´s right because it´s science), but the next era will be one where it becomes mainstream to drive oneself and one´s planet to go along with the universes´ current – whether it be to feel imagined peer-pressure from other planets, or because rationality is the best tool for improving life and solving problems, or because one has respect for Reality and wants to do as it “wants” us to do (it, using rationality, steers all toward truth rather than superstition). The pitfalls of the mind are a good example of the toolkit evolution gave us and how we´ve got to go through mental acrobatics to make that toolkit perform logic/tasks which benefit us (in way´s we don´t feel are benefits because of that toolkit again).
One major pitfall, unless you´re inclined toward the morbid/emo, is that my theory/world-view/science is not like the bronze-age cults/religions which said “obey rules & rituals to get to heaven”. I don´t promise eternal life with all pleasures fulfilled in exchange for you doing rituals. I can see why, if you believe in such trades, it would make you happy that you get eternal life with pleasures for the small price of doing some rituals and obeying some rules – you don´t even need to think for yourself! What luxury. Of course my work has already proven that whoever invented such claims/cults/religions was a snake-oil salesman; he promises things which are not real and which run counter to the certainly true rationality-based theory of my work (his promises simply has no place in a thinking educated human), so the rituals done and the rules obeyed were extremely bad if they were a suicide bombing, a waste of money if the church got paid, but most rituals are raising-paradigms where discipline and structure are enforced – so whether those kinds of rituals are good or bad depends on your view of discipline and structure being taught and upheld eventhough the ritual itself is useless (unlike tooth-brushing which is useful discipline).
If there were only 6 religions (there are tens of thousands), they could be put on sides of a dice and when you roll the dice it´s 1/6 chance that you get truth and 5/6 risk that you get some “stranger-promised-me-eternal-
life-with-bliss-in-exchange-
for-rituals”-religion. While the dice is spinning the question arises: what if truth is bleaker than “eternal life of bliss after death with an allmighty supervisor who gets pleasure from seeing people do his rituals”. A story, incompatible with even as simple a science as an infinite size-time-diagram of energymasspacetime with distinction-antidistinction-
opposition (the 3 ideas of the existential theory), might (if believed in even a little bit (which requires one to discard as much of what´s certainly true)) make one more happy than the cold truth. There is nothing saying that all sides of the spinning dice are equally likely to promise satisfaction for your evolved animal needs. A side of the dice that promises you, in an impossibly magical way, wealth, health and fame in an eternal after-life might very well incline you toward hope and optimism in this life, while a side that talks about a hard-for-the-evolved-toolkit-
to-feel-comfortable-with meaningless infinite sizerange as the explanation for why we exist gives a feeling of meaninglessness: the sizerange can´t talk, it doesn´t offer its condolences if someone close to me dies, it doesn´t reward me with an afterlife depending on whether I´m good or evil, talking to it is as worthwhile as talking to a rock… The true world-view is not as possible as a false world-view – and why would it be: the most ficticious stories have no limits on what they can promise people in the future (or what they can make people do here and now, it seems). I think there should be an age-limit to when the theory of evolution is taught to kids: humans being here because of so much homicidal death, life being a struggle to maximize things which there are infinitely many of (like reproduction, power and resource-gathering), millions of years of wars over women, territory, pride, “setting one´s mark in history-books” – bloodshed on an enormous scale just for vanity. Evolution is depressing, especially when you start seeing the subconscious will to power in people you deal with on a day-to-day basis – they´re climbing up an infinite power-ladder by “socially accepted” means like back-handed compliments and Machiavellian court-politics – and no matter how high they climb and how many people they made feel bad while they were climbing, there is still infinitely much left to climb. Synopsis of this being: people hurt eachother because of our infinite greed, and no matter what we achieve we evolved to maximize all we´ve got (because maximization was better than being satisfied and idle to millions of years of our ancestors). The depressing context (evolution) with its personal anxiety-giving maximization leads to resource-consumption, which in turn leads to a future with global warming and an end of oil (which causes yet more anxiety, but also the urge to read my work). The existential theory is meaningless and evolution is depressing – meaninglessness and depression compete, in the competition among ideas, with “eternal life (after your death) where all your needs are more than satisfied”. If we had no qualms about true vs untrue – if we did not care about truth and untruth at all – we´d choose religion over science just because it makes us feel better. That is a pitfall of the mind: we don´t like my work; we don´t like reading things which bring us down; we´d rather read the most uplifting fantasy than the most certainly true depressing theory.
So in my theory nihilism substitutes heaven/hell, the Golden Rule (do onto others like you´d want them do onto you because you´re obviously like them) substitutes moral rules (like the ten commandments), there are no rituals that can be derived from science except the world-view itself (and a universal curriculum that teaches it) and the pictoral diagram. The diagram contains at least 5 drawable symbols (infinity signs, evolution) and one can represent it using one´s hands (by making a square for the size-time-diagram and a triangle (that originates at the center of the square) for evolution becoming more complex as time goes on). No-one wants to do a hand-sign of a square then triangle nor wear the symbol/diagram on a T-shirt – my work/science offers very very little ritual/art compared to any one of the world religions. Compare islam´s complex system of prayers, taxes, mosque-architecture, fasting, travelling, exceptions to all the former and the 5 prayers per day (and formal detail about exactly how many times to bend in prayer depending on which day it is), compare that to my “make a square and a triangle with your hands”. I wish science could lend us more rituals – I find it a really cool prospect that the universe itself have a ritual and that infinitely many aliens are during that ritual because they know science just as we do. I guess my work (writing about science) is a ritual in itself, and so is reading my work/science. Personally, I like structure/ritual/dancing and I wish there were universal such, but sadly there´s not.
The final pitfall for the mind is that my work/science itself is a visual diagram (size-time, where every coordinate is an object, and with infinity-symbols in each corner of the square) with linguistic definitions, details and clarifications. This is a WORLD-VIEW – it is the context: the external (and internal) world. Our brains, just like any animal´s brain whom builds a world-view, evolved to have a very different kind of world-view: something mundane, intuitive – a kind of map of one´s geographical and social surroundings with details about personalities and what objects can do and be used for. Never was that natural map of one´s immidiate local location somekind of argumentative rationale consisting and resulting in abstract visuals and linguistic concepts; for millions of years our “world-view” was not complex logician´s relationships between invisible/abstract concepts; never was one thing in one´s world-view defined as two (like the size-time-diagram is really spacetime as a single thing). The modern world-view that I present conflicts and stumbles over all kinds of pitfalls of the mind which try to say “hey, keep it simple – you´re a caveman who need only know how to hunt and where to get water, and whom are around you – use that knowledge to get power and other evolutionary benefits!” But no: I have two world-views: one “local” of the people I deal with day-to-day and a mental map of my house, but then I also have the meta-context which is this complex argument and step-by-step logic, associations and disassociations between scientific concepts – and it is this world-view that gives me most pride: I have floated long along universe´s river; I´ve been steered toward where curious scientists on infinitely many other planets are steered (not toward random sides of the dice but to a universal focal-point that the brain adapts to). My work is teachable meaning it´s only a matter of time before our entire civilization undergoes a paradigm-shift – once you´ve heard my work a few times all subsequent repetition of it becomes like hearing over and over that the earth is round: one already knows all there is to know about a topic. Today all people know that the earth is round and in a few decades everyone will know what I´ve worked out in my work. That will end the era of group-cohesion based on religious ties (which today holds ISIS together – no quran = no glue between ISIS-members) and it will enhance sympathy between people (a more loving world) because we´ll know what a stranger is thinking (i.e. what he/she believes to be true about the grandest context in which he/she lives – we´ll all have the same associations and disassociations between ideas). Planets/civilizations go through eras of history and we are right on the verge of moving into the era of more love and less war, where everyone has both a natural/normal toolkit-conforming world-view and also the abstract pinnacle-of-civilization world-view with all its pitfalls for the mind.
Another thing that works against the spreading of my work is that I deal with concepts like “size”, “time”, “coordinate systems” etc – I use words that 15 year olds know. My whole science could´ve been invented in caveman days – my work doesn´t utilize (many) modern ideas and this begs the question: is my work really, actually new? My thesis could´ve been invented in caveman days but it wasn´t: some proofs of this are that: you can´t find a size-time-diagram eventhough it unites all fields of science (on the y-axis) and shows all objects through all times (on the x-axis). The size-time-diagram, especially when size and time are proven to be infinite, is such a multidisciplinary tool which, if you add the linguistic footnotes “energymasspacetime” and “distinction-antidistinction-
opposition”, becomes a full-fledged existential theory – it explains why our known sizerange and our known stretch of time exists; it is a modern rival to all ancient creation-myths. The face that you haven´t seen a size-time-diagram before learning it from my work, and the fact that bronze-age creation myths are today more widespread, more popular and more believed in than my theory (the prevelance of God) go to show that my ideas haven´t gained traction; if one knows my idea then one cannot unlearn it and it relentlessly makes one doubt whatever bronze-age explanation of the universe that one´s country´s holy book teaches. Most of the world believes in God but they wouldn´t if they knew my theory – this shows that my theory is new (it´s my invention in the 21st century eventhough the component ideas (like size and time) have been known for millennia).
Maybe the story about how I found my idea sheds some light on how such an obvious (in hindsight) and composed of simple components-idea could remain undiscovered until the 21st century. I watched The Teaching Company´s professors on video – it´s the best professors in the world and each gets around 15 hours to say the most important notions from his/her field. I watched 200+ such courses – it took me 8 years. Logic told me that if I discover something (of importance such as an existential theory or proof that the sizerange is infinite) that none of the TTC-professors has mentioned, then my invention must be new and I should focus on it to advance it further until I know it completely. I saw courses about each size (the entire known sizerange) and this is what is usually called “the fields of science”. I then found a mysterious interest for Einstein´s thoughts on that energy and mass are the same and space and time are the same (and energymass and spacetime are in the same equation) – this led me to conclude that “reality is one”. I also knew that Descartes´ certain truth (I think & I exist) must, globally and universally, be the starting point for some future course that will be taught to everybody. Luckily my two interests (Descartes´ distinction and Einstein´s anti-distinction) overrode my evolved bias that says: “if two things are opposites then only one of them is true/valid” – I knew both to be valid, but opposites, but “within one another” all at the same time. I focused on that thought for years because no professor had mentioned it – it is such a fascinating topic that the TTC-professors would´ve mentioned it in the time they had if they had considered it a significant topic (which it is). Since it was an unmentioned significant topic I decided to take up, as a hobby, to ponder this mysterium – and soon it dawned on me that “I (by being distinct) cannot see Reality” and maybe a month later it dawned on me that this means that there is more to Reality than can be hypothesized, and yet a few months later it dawned on me that it is sizes and times that there are more of. All fields of science are stretches along the size-axis and if the size-axis is infinite then there´s infinitely many fields of science (though they´re not studyable for us because they´re beyond the knowable sizerange). This is awe-inspiring – the most “divine” conclusion I´ve ever found. The fact that I hadn´t heard my line of reasoning, even though its importance and awe-inspiring nature, in school nor by the best professors the world has to offer (TTC), I knew I had become a scientists – one of those that invents what professors then teach. I knew I was onto something new and true (and unfound until now because of the pitfalls and biases of the mind) because if it had been invented before – it being an existential theory rivaling “God created earth…” – I would´ve heard it, especially having watched 200+ university-level programs by the best professors. But to you as the reader it might be a pitfall for your mind that my idea, though abstract, uses components that were available millennia ago – but if this is a pitfall for you: remember that 90% of the world is religious meaning they don´t have an existential theory except one that is more like a saga, not an explanation. We´re fighting religious wars where the Quran binds together taliban with taliban, ISIS with ISIS, etc. The president of the USA said, in his inauguration, that God had chosen USA – it makes no sense for the sizerange of energymasspacetime to “choose” (as if it was a mind) a country. There´s evidence of religion all-over the world, which is proof that my work hasn´t penetrated; even though my work rests on simple ideas (but the book lets the mind go through many evolved pitfalls), if you ask people why there is a size-range in the first place they just shrug instead of quote “it´s infinite, made of energymasspacetime and distinction-antidistinction-
opposition”. My work is unknown even though it could´ve been realized in caveman days. It took me watching the best professors to get up to date with where science was, for me to be able to filter out a hobby-idea to develop further – because I knew that if the implications of the idea were big and global, and it had never been mentioned to me even though I´ve seen 200 of the best professors, then I must be onto something.
Author
yonis
Posted on
13/03/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on Pitfalls of the mind
the context
The context for this book is that Bill Maher, in his movie Religulous, says that it´s a doomsday scenario that we humans invented nuclear weaponry before we got rid of religions. Christopher Hitchens said the same thing in a different way in his many books: that religion poisons human relationships and that many world conflicts are religion-based. This may not seem like a current issue now that the religiously-bound group ISIS (which allied itself, based on religion, to other similar groups in Africa) is nearly defeated. The Israel-Palestine conflict, where religion is the main cause for “us vs. them-grouping”, is on a slow simmer. But what happens if the world decides to take global warming seriously and reduce global emissions/consumption, or if an economic crisis happens, or if the oil runs out (as it eventually will)? We´d be better off without religious rifts. We´d be better off without large groups (tied by religion). We´d rather have the state of affairs that already exists in many places like Brazil or India: there´s the affluent and there´s the poor, and the crime and tension that thus exists – but we won´t have a clash of civilizations based on religion, a world war 3. The rulers of Muslim nations, if they turned away from religion, would be ousted in coup d’états by the populations which demand a theocracy – there´ll be a rift like there was in Libya between western values and sharia law. If God is removed from the whole debate, it becomes a reasonable debate about sexuality  (and pork-eating). If it is in everyone´s minds made impossible that God gives revelations, then we´re dealing with human-made codes of conduct and laws – which can be rationally debated.
Author
yonis
Posted on
13/03/2017
Categories
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
on the context
Text (12 pages)
I can tell you everything about God.
This book won’t be a commentary on any holy book though; it won’t be in the tradition of interpretation of dogmas, sagas and mysteries. It won’t be a mystic’s spiritual book which disengages the rational analytical mind. Instead I’ll tell you everything about God in the tradition that Einstein and philosophers belonged to. It will be an algebra-like linguistic relationship-between-symbols (with just two visuals) analysis of what’s true.
I can tell you everything about God in the rational tradition – but before you think this will be an atheistic refutation of God, I might aswell reveal beforehand that God & Soul are legitimate concepts and we’ll discover their rational roots tens of thousands of years ago in this book. There is a natural narrative i.e. logical cohesion from step to step in the anatomy/history of the brain that leads up to the invention of God & Soul. The mind-processes/conscious abilities which result in God & Soul being realized and thus the ideas getting an impact on the world are utilized by simple means – it is relatively easy to just stumble upon God as an idea. This is why God & Soul date back to caveman days – they’re one of the earliest artifacts of civilization: like the spear.
To tell you everything about God I should do semantics i.e. define what I mean by the word God. I won’t mention dogmas other than The Golden Rule (do onto others like you’d want them to do onto you) not rituals other than showing universal scientific symbols (like the figures in this book) – what I’ll tell you about God will be rational/abstract/theoretical and not some pretext for following one culture’s dogmas/rituals over the other 10 000 religions’ dogmas/rituals.
I’ll show you how to for yourself figure out what God is, instead of turn you to any particular raising-paradigm/holy book.
There are three groups of people:
The intellectuals who are life-long learners learning for learning’s sake; the readers who are curious for the joy of answers and read for reading’s sake.
