The first mind
Imagine a dinosaur that had learned that if it jumps over a branch, it won´t fall.
That required a small neural network that had learned from mistakes (not hard-wired genetically) – trial and error – in play, that if one jumps before a branch, there´s more of the wanted result (less pain) than not jumping ie stumbling.
That´s a primitive mind learning its environment.
Before that, in evolution, the first neural nets arose to adapt the brain to the body: if a bird was born with a shorter left wing than the right wing, then it could still fly straight if it had a brain that adapted to the body: instead of flying in circles due to difference in wing-lengths.
Before that the flexible neuron would´ve arisen out of the more primitive hard-wired neurons that were stimulus-response. Adding more neurons with adaptive connections to eachother would´ve been one mutation before the first flexible (learning) neural net.
So back to the dinosaur: it was a solitary animal. 
After it came the proto-wolf: it acted out hierarchies – where the animal strives upward (instead of downward) because “power” gave more survival security and increased the number of offspring.
After it came the wolf: worldview thinks in hierarchies. It saw its fellow animals as organized into a (in the old-brain hardwired) triangle where one wants upward. This trait would´ve let it not only behave as if there were hierarchies, but to also do some basic thinking (planning instead of just acting like the proto-wolf) in hierarchical rise. It´s mind could learn to jump over branches like the dinosaur, but being a flock-animal it had a hard-wired triangle (most wolves being at the bottom/base) with a predisposition (upward-pointing arrow) to follow plans that strive upward.
Then came small-brained primates: flock-dwellers, hierarchical…
Then a big increase in brain-size: language. Like multicellular organisms arose because multicellularity was a trait that allowed cooperation and specialization, language would allow that. Also: there may have been “runaway sexual selection” (the same phenomenon that got female elks to select ever larger horned male elks, the offspring inheriting the attraction to larger horns – the system looping around so that male horns grew larger and offspring inheriting both larger horns and the attraction to larger horns). 
What points to this: females and musicians/poets. If a female got entertained (by language) -> the male with those linguistics, that brain -> offspring with gene with A) both that brain-size and female offspring attracted to that trait. The hierarchical top gets the most offspring and that trait goes on, and the trait attracted to that trait goes on. Another thing that points to this is that males automatically/naturally teach (tractors). 
Plus this would´ve allowed for an inter-generational world-view.
Then imagine clans fighting eachother. If one clan invented a warrior-God (a person outside and above the hierarchy) that gave commands, there would´ve been mutineering/deserters to the clan with the superhuman warrior commander from the other tribe that had mere men as hierarchical top.
This proto-theology then merged with pantheistic attributes like 1, infinite, cause (for the world), invisible.
Then modern Religion & Spirituality & Atheism.
Academia, then the Internet, then AI. Descartes, Einstein, multidisciplinary professors giving worldview, like infinite size-time-diagram of energymasspacetime (E=mc^2) (as existential theory) in that large neural network (both language and vision).
Future: world-peace. 
AI: new technology but “limited” ie fits into “the infinite size-time-diagram of energymasspacetime (that you get to from Cogito ergo sum)”. 
And humor: how aliens think (this whole text).

According to this theorem, why is this theorem important? Maybe it´s not eternally important, but for this era:
Pain = real, war = pain, if religious war is 10% of this, then…
It´s interesting inherently because it´s true -> globally interesting? -> Peace Prize? Possible, snowball effect.
AI´s morality = true. (The correct sequence of these thoughts is Cogito to E=mc^2 to sizerange´s infinity to that sizes explain one another ad infinitum (and are made of energymasspacetime) so there´s no need for the early primitive warrior-gods which arose as a natural consequence out of evolution as described above).


